<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Poetry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:non-fiction">
		<article id="prologue-to-south-ontario-sketches" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Prologue to South Ontario Sketches<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-1" id="noteref-1" epub:type="noteref">1</a></h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The district lying South of Georgian Bay and Lake Simcoe, including Toronto.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>My friends we sing Canadian themes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For in them we proudly glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her lakes and rivers and her streams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Worthy of renown in story;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in these leaves we hope is strewn</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Some wheat among the chaff,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And maple boughs by rude axe hewn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where one may find a rustic staff;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To help him o’er the rugged lines</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If he to weariness inclines.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some see no beauties near to home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But do admire the distant far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They always love abroad to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">View glory in but far off star;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let it never be forgot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That distant hills when closer seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are after all a barren spot</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Not like your own hills clad in green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll find they are but idle dreams</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To seek for happiness afar.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At home there’s lovely lakes and streams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Remain content now where you are;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At us we hope you will not rage</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because we sing of local charms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In each varied town and village</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As well as round our local farms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But our address it must be brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">So now we bid you all adieu,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of our book pray read each leaf</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Until the whole you have gone through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one doth know it is not wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Though our songs may not be vocal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chants of our home for to despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But prize them ’cause they are local.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="reminiscences" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Reminiscences</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On the laying of the corner stone of the Brock monument at Queenston Heights, and the final interment of the General who had fallen at the battle of Queenston, <abbr>Oct.</abbr> 13th, 1812.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-2" id="noteref-2" epub:type="noteref">2</a> The remains of his Aide, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> McDonald, were also deposited under the new tower.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A wail went o’er broad Canada,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it was known a vile outlaw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had at midnight’s awful hour,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With ruffian hand blown up the tower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Neath which had slept the gallant Brock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who bravely fell on Queenston’s rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But graceful column soon shall rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its beauteous shaft will kiss the skies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For from Queenston’s woody height</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may behold a pleasing sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grim old veterans of the war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Militiamen with many a scar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Indian braves from each nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grouped to pay their last ovation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round the remains of General Brock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who led them oft in battle’s shock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old heroes now again do rally,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feebly they move along the valley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not as they rushed in days of yore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When torrent like they onward bore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And swept away the foeman’s ranks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er Niagara’s rugged banks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So indignant was their grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On losing of their warrior chief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now with triumphant funeral car,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Adorned with implements of war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sad procession slow ascends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As round the hill its way it wends.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Marching to mournful, solemn note,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While grand old flags around it float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now may peace be never broken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong lands where Saxon tongue is spoken.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“For peace hath victories by far</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More glorious than horrid war,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>England doth Longfellow revere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And America loves Shakespeare.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="birth-of-canada-as-a-nation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Birth of Canada as a Nation</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>July First, 1867.</p>
					<p>Written during the visit of delegates from the Lower Provinces to negotiate for confederation.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Hail Britannia’s noblest daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who is surrounded by the water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of many a lake and broad sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Land of beaver and of maple tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her lofty brow is wreathed with smiles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For from the far Atlantic isles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In pomp have come their delegates,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All seeking to unite their fates.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With Canada great northern queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now throughout the land is seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High festival and stately dance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphant nuptials to advance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And soon shall Red River valley</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And distant Vancouver rally,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To form this Empire gigantic</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Pacific to Atlantic.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="welcome-to-the-prince-of-wales" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Welcome to the Prince of Wales</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines written when the Prince of Wales was about embarking for Canada, May, 1860.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In his long voyage o’er the sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To where doth grow the maple tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May he be blest with pleasant gales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The coming man, the Prince of Wales.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The maple grows but in good soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where nature doth reward for toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The farmer splitting his fence rails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He welcome bids the Prince of Wales.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the woods the axe is ringing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the yeoman merry singing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The song resounds o’er hills and dales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our future king the Prince of Wales.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Round the brow of our future chief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll weave a wreath of maple leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For o’er broad Canada prevails</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kind feelings to the Prince of Wales.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When in this land the Prince arrives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May he have many pleasant drives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on our lakes have merry sails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great king of princes, Prince of Wales.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lament-of-the-maple-tree" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Lament of the Maple Tree</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">A Vision</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>“We had a dream which was not all a dream.”</span>
					</p>
					<cite>Byron</cite>
				</blockquote>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>I laid me down one day in June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was late long afternoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A very sultry summer’s eve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such times the senses oft deceive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The place was ’neath a maple tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon from all cares and troubles free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By a gentle, kindly slumber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more our sorrows we could number,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we heard a plaintive wail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such as we find in fairy tale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was the genius of the tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who in sad guise appeared to me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then she sadly did give vent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto this awful grave lament:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I am gay in month of June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All decked in green, yet very soon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas my beauty will be faded</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my charms be all degraded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For is my time of glory brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So often flattered is my leaf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canada so broad and free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All poets sing of the maple tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High I stand in their opinion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Emblem of the New Dominion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The reason I do them upbraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some never slept beneath my shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they take the liberty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To chant about the maple tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They dare to poetise my leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the source of all my grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I think their praises all so rude</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as but base ingratitude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So often hackneyed is my name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That every fall I burn with shame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like maiden’s cheek which blushes red</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When vain rash youth asks her to wed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then do these foolish ones descry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In me fresh beauty and they sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then renew their songs of praise.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But unto me how sad their lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then I know my days are brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis hectic flush upon my leaf;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True poets then should mournful sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the destroyer’s on the wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then I know my leaves of gold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will all soon mingle with the mould,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No one does ever think to praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fell destroyer when he slays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>None rejoice in the flushed cheek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the poor girl is low and weak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps they’ll say and it is true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In spring my glories I’ll renew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’tis poor comfort after all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lose my offspring every fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Small consolation to mother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tell her that soon another</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will replace her fond darling boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who has been source of all her joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you know all about my wood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You know that it is strong and good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I have full many a curl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pleasing eye and charming nurl,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-3" id="noteref-3" epub:type="noteref">3</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some love me as fond nature grained</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some prefer my beauty stained,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But my dear friend I hope that you</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My varied shades love pure and true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For of the woods you know the staple</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stoutest and best is good maple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youth my sugar eat with glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And old maids love me in their tea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In me do various uses meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In summer shade, in winter heat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I do make a glorious blaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All worthy of the poet’s lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to their praises I’ll be deaf</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If more they harp about my leaf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They call me gay when I am sober</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To me ’tis gloomy month October,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But saints on earth when they die</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hope for true bliss beyond the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So winter does bring no alarms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it strip bare my trunk and arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For now I know that time will bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More glorious foliage in the spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then all nature will rejoice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphing with glorious voice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And birds will in my branches sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hosannas to the lovely spring.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-violets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Violets</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Once, while digging ’neath the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mid Canadian winter, lo!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To our joy and surprise</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">We saw some violets in full bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gazing at us with loving eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i2">Thanking us for opening their tomb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet still they seemed so cozy and nice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enshrined in the crystal ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While all else were drooping dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gaily they held up their head.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="patriotic-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Patriotic Ode</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Written at the time of the last excitement on the Niagara Frontier.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Rejoice, rejoice, we all do stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>United in one mighty band;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No traitors in our land we find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All one in heart, all one in mind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolute in their opinion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>None shall conquer our Dominion;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For every man with dauntless mien</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will rally round our flag and Queen.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fight-of-a-buffalo-with-wolves" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fight of a Buffalo with Wolves</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">We were so deeply impressed with the courage displayed by a buffalo in a prose tale that we transposed the description into verse.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A buffalo, lord of the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With massive neck and mighty mane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While from his herd he slowly strays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He on green herbage calm doth graze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when at last he lifts his eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A savage wolf he soon espies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But scarcely deigns to turn his head</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it inspires him with no dread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows the wolf is treacherous foe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But feels he soon could lay him low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A moment more and there’s a pair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose savage eyes do on him glare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with contempt them both he scorns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unworthy of his powerful horns;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their numbers soon do multiply</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the whole pack he doth defy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He could bound quickly o’er the plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his own herd could soon regain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His foes they now are full a score</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lolling tongues pant for his gore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hears their teeth all loudly gnash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So eager his big bones to crash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On every side they him infest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The north, the south, the east, the west</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fierce rage doth now gleam from his eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved to conquer or to die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Round him they yelp and howl and growl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He glares on them with angry scowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They circle closer him around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He roars and springs with mighty bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of his powers gives ample proof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Felling them with horn and hoof,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though some lay dead upon the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet their attack was not in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they have tasted of his blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved it soon shall pour a flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He feels that they have torn his hide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And streams gush from each limb and side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He rushes on them in despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tosses them full high in air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But others rush on him and pull</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down to the earth that glorious bull;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the flesh of this noble beast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their bloody jaws they soon do feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full worthy of a better fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far from his herd and his dear mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who now do look for him in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His bones do whiten now the plain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="disaster-to-steamer-victoria-at-london" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Disaster to Steamer Victoria at London</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At London Thames is a broad stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which was the scene of a sad theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fragile steamer there did play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’ercrowded on a Queen’s Birthday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While all on board was bright and gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon ’neath the cold waters lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Naught but forms of lifeless clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which made, alas! sad month of May.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fight-with-a-bear-in-the-northwest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fight with a Bear in the Northwest</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>The following appeared in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.magazine">Truth</i> in the form of a prose tale of considerable length. We have concentrated the essence thereof into the few verses below. It is a tale of the Canadian Northwest, during the times of the Hudson Bay Company’s rule.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Two youths, employed at the fur fort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved to have half-day of sport;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Jasper House, in the far north,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For game, they joyous issued forth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The factor of the Hudson Bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Granted them a few hours’ play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it was in cold winter time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When thick on lake was glassy rime;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But beneath, o’er all their route,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They saw below big speckled trout.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With hatchet, ice they did clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the beauteous trout did spear,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For they were longing for a dish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of this sweet and savory fish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they caught many, too, with bait,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in the day it was not late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it was cloudy with snow storm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet they saw the noble form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the hurricane did blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a fine, noble buffalo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they resolved to have a treat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the delicious buffalo meat;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he did on his haunches rear⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To their surprise it was a bear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The lake being smooth, the youths did skate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved for to seal his fate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pistol shot made bruin roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from him trickled drops of gore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They round him skate, and fresh blood drew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they at him the hatchet threw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He chased one and then the other,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For men on skates did him bother.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the bold Scottish lad, McBeath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas! he nearly met his death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he so boldly did press near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To probe him with the sharp fish spear,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For with fell swoop the paws of bruin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him they almost did bring ruin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he so dexterously did skate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he escaped such horrid fate.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now they skated back to fort</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For aid for to renew the sport,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They knew their game was no trifle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they secured a trusty rifle.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Returning he had fled to wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they tracked him with his blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they did not yet despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But that they would capture bear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They saw the elder bushes sway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While he did force through them his way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And heard the brushwood loudly snap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he went through he left a gap.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They skated swiftly o’er the ice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And were near brushwood in a trice;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full soon the savage beast is slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rifle bullet in his brain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now these hunters do take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In skin as large as buffalo hide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Indian stripped the skin of bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left the carcass in his lair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-sports-and-games-and-plays" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Sports and Games and Plays</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Burns sang of joys of Halloween</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in Canada is often seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By far more jolly times than these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At logging raising, paring bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here the youth is not afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To trip it with a pretty maid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For this at night is his reward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For working at the bee so hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oft times till the break of day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At forfeits they will merry play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he doth win e’en though he miss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If from sweet lass he gets a kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in its place doth justly prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His tea and cakes and pumpkin pies.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When winter comes it brings no gloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But makes fresh pleasures spring and bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For when the youth longs for a bride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gives his girl a grand sleigh ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which to them both doth pleasures bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While merry sleigh bells cheery ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with the fair maid of his choice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He graceful skates with her on ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Charming mode of locomotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gliding o’er a polished ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such joys they soon do love evolve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they on union do resolve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is happy with his chosen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For warm love gets never frozen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And young folks oft they do take pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How swift they down the hill can glide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they bravely dare the frost king</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they may enjoy the coasting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each striving for to lead the van</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the swift shooting toboggan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And on the ice men love to hurl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The polished blocks to skilful curl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And curlers all do proudly claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their’s is a manly healthy game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in Canadians you trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A generous, hardy and brave race.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And brilliant as a fairy hall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is scenes on ice at carnival,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before the gale in an ice boat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It swiftly o’er the ice doth float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sensation is you fly</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like lightning shooting through the sky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In summer time the youth do toss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The baseball and do play lacrosse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tradition doth for it claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ’tis an ancient Indian game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if a foe invade we can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drive them back with clubs Canadian.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-methodist-union" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Methodist Union</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead"><abbr>Sept.</abbr> 1883, whereby the whole of the churches of that denomination were united into one body.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A pleasing sight to-day we see,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four churches joined in harmony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There difference was but trivial,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But strove each other to outrival.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In friendship now they do unite,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Satan only they do fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they’ll plant churches in North West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where they can serve the Lord the best.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="niagaras-charms-and-death-of-webb" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Niagara’s Charms and Death of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Capt.</abbr> Webb</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Gazing on rapids mighty sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struggling fiercely to be free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But drawn downwards in its course</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By gravitation’s wondrous force,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er those perpendicular walls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hurled ’mong mighty rocks it falls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Causing the earth to throb and shake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like to the tremor of earthquake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thus the world’s greatest wonder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reverberates like peals of thunder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enshrined with mist and beauteous glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of varied tints of the rainbow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Most glorious sight the human eye</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath ever seen beneath the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along these banks none ever trod</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But did feel grateful to his God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lavishing with bounteous hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glories majestic and so grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The foaming billows soon are seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Transformed into a beauteous green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plunged by whirlpools dread commotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It becomes a seething ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where furies join in surging dance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From centre to circumference,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is the favorite abode</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Neptune, mightiest sea God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hath decreed none shall survive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who will into this vortex dive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Webb swam the English channel brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like seabird he did love to lave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His breast upon the mightiest wave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas, found here a watery grave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Torrent onward rushes frantic</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On its course to the Atlantic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on its way doth gently flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through blue lake Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing on its way it smiles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissing the shores of Thousand Isles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingling with <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence motion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It soon is blended with the ocean.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="st-catharines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines read at the Welland House, <abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines, at a banquet given to the members in attendance at the Odd Fellows’ Grand Lodge.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span><abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines famed for mineral waters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for the beauty of her daughters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some do worship at the shrines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the fair <abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span><abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines your greatness you inherit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the genius of a Merritt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You still would be a village dreary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for this canal from lake Erie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For on its bosom there doth float</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full many a ship and steamboat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brings world’s commerce to your doors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many gifts on you it pours.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Among its many great rewards</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It gives you dry docks and ship yards,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drive your mills great water power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It doth give you as a dower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Since we above lines did compose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through new canal vast stream it flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lock gates at the hill at Thorold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can not be equaled in the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-credit-valley-trip" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Credit Valley Trip</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The Credit Valley Railway Company having placed a car at the service of the council we were kindly invited to accompany them to Toronto, a short time after the opening of the road.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Whene’er we take a tour abroad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We love to travel o’er new road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where scenery to us is new</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And landscape pleasing to the view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When invited for to rally</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take a trip on Credit Valley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We resolved for to afford</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A day with Council and School Board,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to view the rural charms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hills and dales and fertile farms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy we saw the sunbeams gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Grand River beauteous stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And those perpendicular walls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of rock, like old baronial halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We saw the great lake ebb and flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And queen city of Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While some enjoyed the genial smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Hanlon on his lake girt isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Returning home each one exclaims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Happiest spot is banks of Thames.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-canadian-hunter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Canadian Hunter</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of Kentucky’s great hunter bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Daniel Boone oft tales are told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wild beasts he had no fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But dangers loved that pioneer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Canada has hunters many,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet perhaps there is not any</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For skill and boldness can compare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With our own Daniel Hebner.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In youth he was both tall and strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And supple as a willow thong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never fled from savage bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though bruin on hind legs would rear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In hunting mink, or fox or coon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was a second Daniel Boone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His rifle oft brought down the deer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which to his table brought good cheer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But through his life his highest aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was to kill the savage game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To track the wild cat to its lair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see its eyes so fiercely glare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he oft longs for a cut ham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet as from bear near to Putnam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he waged his fiercest war</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In big swamp of Dorchester.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now in the winter Dan he rides</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warm ’mong his bear and coon skin hides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He lets the younger men now snare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beaver, muskrat and otter.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hope-for-ingersoll" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hope for Ingersoll</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of Ingersoll we’re justly proud,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though o’er it hath hung a cloud;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was heavy, dark, profound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weighing o’er ten thousand pound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now the clouds do disappear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the sun is shining clear⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now, with pleasure, we do behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our railroad bonds are good as gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The people now need not despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thank our Council and our Mayor.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-4" id="noteref-4" epub:type="noteref">4</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-rivers-and-lakes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Rivers and Lakes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We have here a sight as fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As bonnie Doon or banks of Ayr,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like modest worth meandering slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The quiet waters gently flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose, thistle, shamrock, all combine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around the maple leaf to twine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose outstretched arms so gigantic</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clasp Pacific and Atlantic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Embracing lakes like burnished gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy a Shakespeare might behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For either Poet Burns or Moore<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-5" id="noteref-5" epub:type="noteref">5</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such scenery they would adore.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="life-in-the-woods" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Life in the Woods</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on the struggles of the early settlers.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Canada hath wealthy yeomen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose fathers overcome the foemen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The enemy they boldly slew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was mighty forests they did hew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where they burned heaps of slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their sons now reap the golden grain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the region of Northwest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With prairie farms they are blest.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though this to them it may seem good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet many blessings come from wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It shelters you from the fierce storm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the winter keeps you warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For one who hath his forest trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He builds his house and barn with ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how quick he gets from thence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Timber for bridge and for his fence.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-joys-of-prairie-farmers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Joys of Prairie Farmers</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We let Ontario farmers sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the joys the woods do bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we in regions of Northwest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do think prairie farms the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For those poor men who swing the axe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On their strength ’tis a heavy tax,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For several years they naught can grow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While from the first we plow and sow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while we plow we don’t get thumps</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By running it against the stumps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where wild Buffalo now doth feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There very soon they’ll sow the seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Indian wigwams now do stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be the site of cities grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where the deer and wolf doth roam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Millions will build each happy home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So quick as if by magic wand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They will arise o’er the whole land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this one fact we won’t deny</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ontario she can supply,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For so skilfully she doth invent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each agricultural implement.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nova-scotia" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Nova Scotia</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines written when Nova Scotia was threatening to withdraw from the Confederation.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>If you are sulky, Nova Scotia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll gladly let you float away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From out our Confederation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You sicken us with sly agitation.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If any more our patience you do tax</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’ll let you go to Halifax.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="port-stanley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Port Stanley</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines composed on an excursion to Port Stanley, 1883.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In winter time ’tis sad and dreary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to gaze on stormy Erie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here in summer time this port</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a fashionable resort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then it is always cheery</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to gaze upon Lake Erie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or on the steamer you can sail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All independent of the gale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or here the youth can ply the oar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And view the fast receding shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be happy with his dearie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the bosom of Lake Erie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No one here need ever weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the borders of Lake Erie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With quadrille parties at Stanley</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And games and sports all so manly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or bathe in waves with friends near thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You fear no storms of Lake Erie.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="donald-ross" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Donald Ross</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">A Scottish-Canadian tale.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>By the side of a moss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lived young Donald Ross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the heathery hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the mountain rills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a snug little cot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Content with his lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never knew sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his wife and wee Flora.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But an order went forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the land of the north,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To burn many a home</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So the wild deer might roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With grief he then did toss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every night Donald Ross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sad seemed the morrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For his wife and sma’ Flora.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>O it was a cruel deed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But nobles do not heed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sorrows of the poor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drove on a barren moor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he wove a wreath</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the blooming heath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to crown with glory</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brow of little Flory.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He then bade farewell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his mountain dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where his fathers appears</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had lived a thousand years,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their few goats and sheep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which feed on hills so steep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O it was a sad story</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For bonnie little Flory.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He sought a distant strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canada bought land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him a glorious charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To view his own broad farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His horses and his cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cultivators and plows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now his daughter Flora</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She is the flower of Zorra.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="port-burwell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Port Burwell</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">About a quarter of a century ago, when Port Burwell was a busy, thriving place, several friends accompanied me to thQ port to attend a concert, we all being specially invited. It was in the winter, and there had been a race on the ice, in which the Port Burwell horse took the lead. We gave a local piece of some length, but only retain now a few lines. The people at the concert were highly pleased with the effusion.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In winter time who here resort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pay a visit to your busy port,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They must be clad in fur well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it blows cold at Burwell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when you wish to trot your horse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You make Lake Erie your race course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we believe at every heat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All other horses you do beat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-t-d-mcgee" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. D.</abbr> McGee</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Having been kindly invited as a member of the Mechanics’ Institute some 20 years ago by the late Jeremiah O’Neill, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Esq.</abbr>, to meet that gentleman in company with a number of our townsmen, when <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> McGee was rising from the table the chair being new stuck to him, and it being near a general election he very wittily remarked that he hoped the people of Montreal would be as anxious to retain him in his seat as the people here are. We wrote the following lines at the time, the last verse was added afterwards.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>DeArcy McGee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All compliment thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hope of the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On your lecture so grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though that is your forte,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh give us the sport</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of an hour of your chat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then we’ll laugh and grow fat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For none but the vile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could ’ere cease to smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When near to thee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So brilliant and free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Plant of green Erin’s isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long in Canadian soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May you take deep root</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bear much noble fruit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our hopes were in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alas he is slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By a crankish hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The flower of the land.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="london-flood" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">London Flood</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Pencil sketch of the ruin left by the London flood, July 11th, 1883.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>From the long continuous rains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’erflowing were the swamps and drains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For each day had its heavy shower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Torrents fell for many an hour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At London where two branches join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seem’d two furies did combine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to spread far both death and woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their wild, raging overflow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E’en houses did on waters float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As though each had been built for boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where was wealth and joy and bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon naught but inmates of the tomb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flood o’erflowed both vale and ridges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And swept railroads, dams and bridges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mother climbed in tree to save</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her infant from a watery grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on the house you saw its blood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where it was crushed ’gainst tree by flood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cottages ’mong gardens stood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis covered o’er with vile drift wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er flowers and bushes you may travel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they are buried under gravel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or you may walk o’er barren sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The crops washed out and fertile land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two funerals we at once did see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of one family who lost three;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer river’s deep and wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But gently flows to distant tide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="london-west" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">London West</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">While the Thames meanders gently through the green pasture fields of Ingersoll, a pleasing picture to behold, how different, alas, is the feeling in London West, where the river is an object of dread and terror, neither pleasing to the eye or nostrils. As we have been living for the last quarter of a century on the edge of one of the tributary streams of the Thames and were once o’erwhelmed with ruin dire by a number of the dams giving way, we can sympathise with them. They are now built strong and substantial, and the ponds are an ornament to the town, as well as a source of wealth. The Caledonian Society, of Ingersoll, donated $50 to the flood sufferers.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The citizens of London West</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their patience oft is put to test</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they behold the various dams</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do cause the floods and the ice jams.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis true that fiercer rages floods</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since country it was stript of woods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Acid river it doth broader spread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With numerous tile drains quicker fed.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If they did raise embankment high</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They might the raging floods defy.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall they with sadness gaze ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or with gladness on the river?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>River with dams it will not wed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It wants no strangers in its bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’gainst them it will rage and fret</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For ’tis no gentle rivulet.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-stratford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Stratford<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-6" id="noteref-6" epub:type="noteref">6</a></h2>
			<p>
				<span>Our Canadian county Perth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Commemorates great bard of earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stratford and Avon both are here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they enshrine the name Shakespeare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For here in Stratford every ward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is named from dramas of great bard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here you may roam o’er Romeo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or glance on Juliet bestow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it is a railway centre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many a train doth here enter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And railroad shops do men employ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gives them work and wealth and joy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="english-names-on-canadian-thames" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">English Names on Canadian Thames<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-7" id="noteref-7" epub:type="noteref">7</a></h2>
			<p>
				<span>England has given us the names</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To adorn Canadian Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And charms to them she has lent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Oxford, Middlesex and Kent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She Essex kisseth in her mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Scottish names, one north, one south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And London now it justly claims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis capital of vale of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her strong castellated tower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth on the river frowning lower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Chatham is the river’s port,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There slaves for freedom did resort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they did industrious toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now many own the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stratford now shall be our theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On Avon tributary stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its clear waters it doth launch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the Thames northern branch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near that substantial stone town</span>
				<br/>
				<span><abbr>St.</abbr> Mary’s with mills of renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Westward it winds past each town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Growing broader as it flows down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Onward it glides never weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meandering so soft and cheery.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sunbeam on the waters glance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Skipping about in silvery dance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From morn till eve the cattle feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Neath lofty elms along the mead.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on its banks in warrior pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The brave Tecumseh fought and died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it has now historic claims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The famous battle of the Thames.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now soon the waters meet and pair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the wavelets of <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As maids when wed do lose their names,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer it is called the Thames.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing on its way it smiles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kissing the shores of Thousand Isles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mingling with <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence motion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It soon is blended with the ocean.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-beachville" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Beachville</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of Beachville, village of the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We now will sing a short refrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here the Thames doth pleasant flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And charm to landscape doth bestow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though river here it is not deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet banks slope graceful up the steep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the summit of the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You look down on the famed lime kilns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ’tis full worthy poet’s rhyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The whiteness of your pure white lime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your glory never shall be gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While you have quarries of this stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In influence you yet will wax</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With mills for flour and also flax.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-ingersoll" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Ingersoll</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Ex-Mayor Thomas Brown may be considered the father of the town, he projected the first roads and bridges.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The Thames and tributary rills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here they do drive numerous mills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enabling millers to compete</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pay high price for oats and wheat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here streams do drive many a wheel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to grind both flour and oatmeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And town will extend its boundaries</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its enterprising foundries.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fine pianos town is famed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And highest rank for them is claimed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brighter days for it yet dawns</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its grand mansions and fine lawns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it has now the title grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The capital of dairyland.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-woodstock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Woodstock</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">We fancy the lustre of the old town is reflected on the new. English Woodstock was a royal residence.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>English Woodstock had a palace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the Queen in jealous malice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Slew romance’s fairest flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fair Rosamond in secret bower;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our Woodstock pleasing county town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This brings it both wealth and renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To your strong castle some are sent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give them leisure to repent.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A charming vista you do view</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazing on each street and avenue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mansions and lawn embowered ’mong trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where wealthy owners live at ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the air there sweetly floats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Harmonious Woodstock organ notes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And men employment secure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In factory for furniture;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old Oxford is a seat of knowledge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Woodstock has a fine new college,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And farm implement work shops,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So farmers easy reap their crops;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old court house is a disgrace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grand structure soon will take its place.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-embro-and-zorra" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Embro and Zorra</h2>
			<p>
				<span>O’er various counties of the north,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When cruel order did go forth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to destroy many a home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that the wild deer free might roam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The men of Sutherland and Ross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The broad Atlantic they did cross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each seeking for a fertile farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These rolling lands for them had charm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They ne’er desired again to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each happy in his woodland home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where middle branch of Thames doth flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They built the village of Embro,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it the hill tops now doth crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like its grand namesake Edina Town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And good flour mills you here do find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oats also they here do grind.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-salford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Salford</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines Read at a Parsonage Opening at the Village where Ranney had once flourished, 1883.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Some do boast of their pedigrees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Salford’s parent of the cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ranney, industrious and wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here started this great enterprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He did work on the dairy plan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Farrington was factoryman,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both of these men it well did please</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hear of progress making cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The farmers are in cheerful mood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For harvest all it has been good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the grain was sown this spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An abundant yield will bring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you can scarcely stow away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The yield of barley, oats and hay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such pasture it is seldom seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>E’en now it is so fresh and green.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This beauteous colour nature decks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While it insures you large milk cheques,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And certes you’ve much cause to praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For hogs and cattle that you raise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-thamesford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Thamesford</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Delivered at Masonic concert, Tliamesford⁠—Grand Master <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> Moffat in the chair.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The middle branch of Thames doth flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er pebble bed and it doth glow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sparkle like silver in the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it through pasture lands doth run.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In dam is ample water stored,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To drive flour mills in Thamesford,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Besides the power of the stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw mills and flax are drove by steam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our mind it doth with pleasure fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see fine brick church on each hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that substantial one of stone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Owned by congregation of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="farrington-1866-factory-system" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Farrington, 1866, Factory System<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-8" id="noteref-8" epub:type="noteref">8</a></h2>
			<p>
				<span>The farmers they now all make rich</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since Farrington went to Norwich,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the system first there began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of making cheese on factory plan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He came from Herkimer county,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Canada he was a bounty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Norwich village moved but slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till railways made it quickly grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And industries here now take root,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The township’s famous for its fruit.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-tilsonburg" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Tilsonburg</h2>
			<p>
				<span>After him who did the mills own,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This place was called in honor Tilson;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bright gleaming like to a beaming star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is clear waters of the Otter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it doth form here a vast pond,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which extends for miles beyond,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fortune on town it will shower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This prodigious water power.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No other spots to youth appear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like lovely little lakes round here,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And few small towns have fine roadway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lined with brick blocks like your broadway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Elsewhere, the firemen slave like Turks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But you have got good water works;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some do many a mile go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to see your famous silo.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-mt-elgin" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Elgin</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Delivered at opening of Odd Fellows’ Lodge.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Dereham now hath wealthy yoemen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose fathers overcame the foemen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The enemy they boldly slew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was mighty forests they did hew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where they burned heaps of slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their sons now reap the golden grain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All will rejoice they took a trip</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Onboard the craft Odd: Fellowship;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your candidates now, in their youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will soon learn friendship, love and truth.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hope your influence will be good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A blessing to the neighborhood.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="corner-stone-laying" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Corner Stone Laying</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following lines were read at the festival after the stone had been laid by Grand Master <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> Moffat, of a church on the Culloden road, with Masonic honors.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In this quiet spot this day of June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which will not be forgotten soon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For when your little church on hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You overflowingly did fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You then resolved there should arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Church worthy of your enterprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve laid foundation broad and deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And showers of blessings may you reap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Craft of King Hiram and Saint John</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have come to lay the corner stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the call of our Grand Master<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-9" id="noteref-9" epub:type="noteref">9</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who was invited by your pastor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With silver trowel all so fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He laid foundation on the square,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May you be blessed with Christian love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we all meet in Lodge above.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-civic-holiday-trip" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Civic Holiday Trip</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on a civic holiday trip on the Grand Trunk, to Toronto, August, 1882. Address to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hodge, conductor of Caledonian games at Ingersoll.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>From Ingersoll, on Canadian Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We come to greet mine host of the <abbr>St.</abbr> James,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This being our town’s civic holiday;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet we remember twenty-fourth of May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then at our Caledonian games</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He did loud proclaim the victors’ names.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We came in part to contribute</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To our town’s mechanics’ institute,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who got up this grand excursion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each one has his own diversion.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some did remain at Burlington Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While we to Toronto did wend our way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And came to see this presentation</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To stalwart son of Scottish nation.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="robert-fleming-gourley" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Robert Fleming Gourley</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Robert Fleming Gourley was a graduate of <abbr>St.</abbr> Andrews’, University, Scotland. When he was crossing Niagara river, after being exiled, he asked for a brush to brush Canadian dust off his feet. Perhaps it will please some to see a little sketch of him, as he was a public man and gloried in that he had the honor of being sentenced both by the Canadian Government and the British. Exiled from Canada, he became a champion of popular rights in England. Lord Brougham opposed his schemes and he whipped His Lordship in the lobby of the House of Commons, for which breach of privilege of house he wad sentenced by the House. He preserved the whip as a precious relic in his house at <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Elgin. [We presume it would not have been prudent to have allowed an able agitator to disturb the country when Canada was but in its infancy, just entering the second quarter of the present century.] <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gourley owned several farms in Dereham and thought he would like to represent Oxford in 1858, after an absence from Canada of about one third of a century. Every one thought he was too old but the old gentleman being in exuberant spirits, having just been married as he said to a young wife, he would prove to them all there was life in the old dog yet.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>There came to Oxford Robert Gourley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his old age his health was poorly;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was a relic of the past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his dotage sinking fast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he was erect and tall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like noble ruined castle wall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In early times they did him impeach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For demanding right of speech,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now Oxford he wished to represent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canadian parliament,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But him the riding did not honor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But elected Doctor Connor.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="odd-fellowship-in-woodstock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Odd Fellowship in Woodstock</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Impromptu lines delivered at the opening of Maple Leaf Encampment, Woodstock, in the year 1883, in connection with Odd Fellows Lodge there. Olive Branch is the subordinate Lodge.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Well tell a tale, it shall be brief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is of rise of Maple Leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From noble Olive Branch it sprung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its good deeds shall yet be sung;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This Encampment, though in its youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Glories in friendship, love, and truth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of all our lodges yet the chief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May be this youthful Maple Leaf;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Built of good timber, it doth launch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well worthy of the Olive Branch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though it only is a shoot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hope that it will take deep root,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon be vigorous Maple tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canada so broad and free.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may its usefulness ne’er cease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sprung from the Olive Branch of peace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But comfort brothers in distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Widows and orphans it will bless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And console them in their grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Protected by the Maple Leaf.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor travellers in the wilderness</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They oft do suffer great distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But may no pilgrim get rude shock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sojourning here in Woodstock.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="odd-fellowship-lines-read-at-concert" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Odd Fellowship Lines Read at Concert</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>Lines delivered at Odd Fellows Concert, Town Hall, Ingersoll, December, 1883.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We look in vain for our Past Grands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now scattered over many lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now some o’er the wide world do rove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some have joined Grand Lodge above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ever since Father Adams’ fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We are dependent creatures all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though man is weak yet he may join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With others strength for to combine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The illustration it is grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Five Oddfellows in one hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet they all united stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each finger hath a different length,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each finger varies in its strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one is weak, but a firm fist,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can scarcely break or twist,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis same with members of a lodge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>United them you cannot budge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then let us linked with pleasant chain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Friendship, love and truth maintain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And aid our brothers in distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The widows and the orphans bless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then let each lodge strive all it can,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both Oxford and Samaritan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To aid distressed brother man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Extending influence for good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And universal brotherhood.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="london-children" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">London Children</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">We have had the pleasure of hearing and seeing several clever children from the city of London. We commemorate them in the following.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Do you unto this world belong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cheer us merrily with song?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are you mortal like ourselves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or are you, charming little elves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sent from some higher sphere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bliss and comfort us while here?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May you be spared from earthly woes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each blossom like the rose.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="caledonian-games" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Caledonian Games</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on Caledonian games, May, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>On grassy amphitheater</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spectators sit, to view the war</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong bold contestants on the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each doth strive the prize to gain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the little boys and girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In highland dress and waving curls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From London, danced the Highland fling;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The whole mass did their praises sing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at the concert did applaud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The little charmers Blanch and Maud.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="victoria-park-and-caledonian-games" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Victoria Park and Caledonian Games</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on the naming of Victoria Park, on Queen’s Birthday, 1881. The ceremony was performed by Thomas Brown, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Esq.</abbr>, Mayor of the town.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Come one, come all, to Scottish games</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the banks of Canadian Thames;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll find that ’tis most pleasant way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can enjoy the Queen’s Birthday.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In future years it will be famed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The day whereon the park was named,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its boundry great extended</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nature’s charms sweetly blended.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Full worthy of the poet’s theme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is hill and dale, and wood and stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And glittering spires, and busy town.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where mansions’ do each mount top crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come, witness the great tug-of-war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the great hammer thrown afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See running, jumping, highland fling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At concert hear the sky lark sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the bagpipes will send thrills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like echoes from the distant hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bold sound of the pibroch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which does resound o’er Scottish loch.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young men and maids, and fine old dames</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will gather on the banks of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though we have a tug-of-war</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twill leave no wound or deadly scar.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-great-fire-of-ingersoll" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Great Fire of Ingersoll</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>May, 1872.</p>
					<p>Written at the time of the disaster.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>’Twas on a pleasant eve in May.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just as the sun shed its last ray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bell it rang, citizens to warn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lo! a fire appears in barn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>An ancient barn near hotel stood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The joining buildings all were wood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This barn a relic of the past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There farmers’ horses were made fast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our once fair town is now in woe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we have had our Chicago;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon a nobler town will rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Ingersoll’s all enterprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For water far town need not seek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As there is river and the creek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just find the means it to apply</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then all fires must quickly die.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="our-firemen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Our Firemen</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines delivered at a Firemen’s Soirée in the days of the hand engines.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Our youth and beauty here arranged,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In honor of the Fire Brigade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now every man is ready</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To obey the bugle of Brady.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And always willing for to ralley</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the trumpet sound of Walley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the fire they rush at once,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Led on by gallant Captain Vance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The firemen, now, their only strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems to be a race for life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which engine first shall reach the fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cause the wild flames to expire.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="st-thomas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr>St.</abbr> Thomas</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>At time of Odd Fellows Grand Lodge meeting, 1884.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Oddfellows once they had to trudge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er rough stage road to the Grand Lodge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now they town of metal seek</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And find it on the Kettle Creek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For industry it here prevails</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it was built by the steel rails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And here the wide expanded bridges</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do connect the distant ridges.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more need to stay at home as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s lots of railroads to <abbr>St.</abbr> Thomas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You pluckily did boldly venture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now you are great railroad centre.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your city now it hath high hopes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From its great railway workshops,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And higher yet it still will rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This seat of so much enterprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When young man wants a wedded mate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He seeks Alma girl graduate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he loves her Alma mater</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the sake of her charming daughter.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="masonic-lines-read-at-a-banquet" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Masonic Lines Read at a Banquet</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>1884.</p>
					<p>The prominent names connected with Masonary are Kings Solomon and Hiram and Saint John, the parent Lodge is King Hiram in Ingersoll, and Saint John is the offspring. Both masters in 1884 are legal gentlemen.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Craft of King Hiram and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They figurative work on stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>King Hiram he is the old sire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was famous King of Tyre.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But great as King upon a throne</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the good, kind, true <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cathedrals did craftsmen raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fills all our minds now with amaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No modern chisel has the power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To trace such leaf, and bud, and flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But though our structures now are rude</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us all make the mortar good.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this injunction never spare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To have the work both plumb and square,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it must have no crack nor flaw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So masters will lay down the law.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of all our work this is the chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give the needy ones relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with truth and brotherly love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sublime structure raise above.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The greatest honor has been won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By that great builder Solomon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And craftsmen o’er the world do sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The praises of that mighty King.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="oxford-cheese-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Oxford Cheese Ode</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">As cheesemaking in Canada first began in this county, and it has already become one of the chief industries of several counties, it is no insignificant theme. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">E.</abbr> Casswell has just received this morning from <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> Millar, Mount Elgin, scale boards for thirty two thousand cheese; each of those cheese which they are intended to protect will weigh about 65 <abbr>lbs.</abbr> each, or over; about three million <abbr>lbs.</abbr> in all.⁠—June 14th, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The ancient poets ne’er did dream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That Canada was land of cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They ne’er imagined it could flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this cold land of ice and snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where everything did solid freeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They ne’er hoped or looked for cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A few years since our Oxford farms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were nearly robbed of all their charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er cropped the weary land grew poor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nearly barren as a moor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now their owners live at ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing in their crop of cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And since they justly treat the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are well rewarded for their toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The land enriched by goodly cows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yields plenty now to fill their mows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both wheat and barley, oats and peas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But still their greatest boast is cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cow, you must treat her as a Queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When grass is dry cut her feed green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>8he will repay you for your toiling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there’s profit in the soiling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its benefits one daily sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who takes an interest in the cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you must careful fill your mows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With good provender for your cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the winter keep them warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Protect them safe all time from harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For cows do dearly love their ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which doth insure best grade of cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To us it is a glorious theme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sing of milk and curds and cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were it collected it could float</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On its bosom, small steam boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cows numerous as swarm of bees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are milked in Oxford to make cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To prove the wealth that here abounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One cheese weighed eight thousand pounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had it been hung in air at noon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Folks would have thought it was the moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It sailed with triumph o’er the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas hailed with welcome, queen of cheese.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-fountain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on a Fountain</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We love cold water as it flows from the fountain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which nature hath brewed alone in the mountain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the wild woods and in the rocky dell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where man hath not been but the deer loves to dwell;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And away across the sea in far distant lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Asia’s gloomy jungles and Africa’s drifting sands;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where to the thirsty traveller a charming spot of green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is by far the rarest gem his eyes have ever seen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he has quenched his thirst at the cooling spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With many grateful songs he makes the air to ring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For many nights he dreams of this scene of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he thinks of Heaven it is of such as this.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-concert-invitation" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Concert Invitation</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following invitation appeared on the programme of a concert.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>If pleasant night you wish to spend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go and invite your lady friend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oddfellow’s concert is the place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where happiness beams in each face.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you resolve to call her wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to enjoy the rest of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All furniture you may require</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can get cheap from McIntyre.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thomas-campbell">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Thomas Campbell</h2>
			<section id="thomas-campbell-preface" epub:type="preface">
				<h3 hidden="hidden" epub:type="title">Preface</h3>
				<p>As musings on Banks of Canadian Thames doth not necessarily consist of meditations in verse, but the monotony of the cogitations may be relieved by a soliloquy in prose, and as Campbell manifested a deep interest in American subjects, we will give the following anecdote related by that genial American Author Washington Irvine, to Sir Walter Scott. Irvine, while in Britian, visited Campbell, but found him absent and he expressed a regret to Campbells wife that her husband did not write more. She said that he was timid and he felt Byron and Scott o’ershadow him with their great poems. Sir Walter replied, “I myself produce pebbles, Scottish pebbles, but Campbell is the creator of Diamonds of the first water.” Byron also expressed himself in a similar strain as follows:⁠—</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>“Arise, O Campbell, give thy talents scope;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Who dares aspire if thou has ceased to hope.”</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>Campbell wrote thus of America in the beginning of the century, and by comparing the facts as he describes them it shows the wonderous strides which the United States, especially, have taken on the Banks of Lake Erie, as Lake Ontario seems to be favorite location for Canadian cities.</p>
				<blockquote epub:type="z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>On Erie’s banks were tigers steal along,</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And the dread Indian chaunts his dismal song.</span>
						<br/>
						<span>Where human fiends their midnight errand walk;</span>
						<br/>
						<span>And bathe in brains the murderous tomahawk.</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p>The poet then predicts that cities will there arise, but more wonderfully quick they have arisen then poets pen ever imagined.</p>
				<p>The poet also imagines the time will come when the fleecy flocks will be straying o’er the thymey pastures and the shepherds dancing at early morn and dewy eve, but alas, these predictions have never been verified, for the lands on Erie’s shores are too valuable for sheep walks, and it is no Arcadian bower where the romance of the dreamy imaginations of the ancient philosophers are being enacted, but a vigorous, intelligent, and industrious population have arisen, who have built villages, towns and cities along its shores. But the foundation of the whole prosperity is the intelligent, well directed industry of the farming population.</p>
			</section>
			<section id="thomas-campbell-poem" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Thomas Campbell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Their industry is not in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For they have bounteous crops of grain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And you behold on every field</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of grass and roots, abundant yield;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But after all the greatest charm</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is the snug home upon the farm.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And stone walls now keep cattle warm,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The cold blast now doth them no harm.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="poetry-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Poetry</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Poetry to us is given,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As stars beautify the Heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or, as the sunbeams when they gleam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sparkling so bright upon the stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the poetry of motion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is ship sailing o’er the ocean;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or, when the bird doth graceful fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeming to float upon the sky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For poetry is the pure cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And essence of the common theme.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poetic thoughts the mind doth fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When on broad plain to view a hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On barren heath how it doth cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see in distance herd of deer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And poetry breathes in each flower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nourished by the gentle shower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In song of birds upon the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And humming of busy bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis solace for the ills of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A soothing of the jars and strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For poets feel ’tis a duty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To sing of both worth and beauty.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-col-wonham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Col.</abbr> Wonham</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Formerly of Ingersoll, now of the North West.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When Wonham got orders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To advance to the borders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His boys they were ready</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fell in quite steady.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They first marched to Woodstock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To prepare for war’s shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon camped at Windsor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing American shore.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="opening-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Opening Ode</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>Delivered at an Odd Fellows’ Concert.</p>
					<p>Some have formed strange conceptions about the mysteries of our order. They believe that enshrouded ’mong the deep and mysterious surroundings of our dark recesses and caves we have chained “Gorgans and Hydras, and Chimeras dire,” and that in our mazes and labyrinths,</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A horrid goat we have to ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With long horns and shaggy hide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that the beast we have to stride well</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without saddle or a bridle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Friends, with pleasure we do meet you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with hearty welcome greet you;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With many we have met before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pleasantly in days of yore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But some new faces we do find,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hope they’ll criticise us kind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abroad for talent we don’t roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But friends and neighbors here at home</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Will give us now a splendid treat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With speeches good and songs so sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And instruments whose soothing charms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will banish cares and our alarms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In friendly deeds they lead the van,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both Oxford and Samaritan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To relieve brothers in distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bounteously the widows bless.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="adventure-on-a-raft" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Adventure on a Raft</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>“Truth is strange, stranger than fiction.”</span>
					</p>
				</blockquote>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following adventure happened in the experience of an Ingersoll man.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A man rafting down the river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Time he will remember ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He shouted, “Pole, the raft to land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or we’ll be wrecked upon the strand.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But captain gave him a reply</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That all danger he would defy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, in another moment more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Part was wrecked upon the shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a Nova Scotian bay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The other half was borne away.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough to make a person shiver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man was drifted out of river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All alone on the broken raft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Driven where e’er the wind did waft;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right out on the open sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the storm did blow so free.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No shelter from the wind or wave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought the gulf would be his grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He had no food, life to sustain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He laid him down, there to remain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What happened he did know no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But old man on Prince Edwards shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While gazing through his good spy glass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“What do I see?” he cried, “Alas!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some poor man, and I fear he’s dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drifting to my humble shed.”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The body acted like a sail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wafted raft before the gale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He called on men to man a boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quickly crew had it afloat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in haste full soon they bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His lifeless body to the shore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But old man did them then desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To place body near the fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wrap it up in blankets warm⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which did act like to a charm⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon the breath it did return.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gratitude his heart did burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To think he was again restored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto his friends, whom he adored;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But worse misfortunes him befell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he bears up ’neath troubles well.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canada-our-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Canada Our Home</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>1883.</p>
					<p>The following response to “Canada, Our Home,” was given at a banquet of the Caledonian Society, Ingersoll:</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Full oft we did enraptured hark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To heavenly song of the skylark.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mrs-moody" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Moody</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">As we have given glances at various Canadian authors in this work, perhaps there is none more worthy than <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Moody, whose vigorous pen was ever active in favor of Canada. She is a sister of the celebrated Agnes Strickland, author of “The Queens of England.” <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Moody is enjoying reasonably fair health in Toronto. She was born in the beginning of the century.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When this country it was woody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its great champion <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Moody,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Showed she had both pluck and push</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her work roughing in the bush.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For there alone she did dwell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At time McKenzie did rebel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Outbreak her husband strove to quell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her own grand struggles she doth tell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Round bush life she threw a glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pioneer renowned in story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But her tale it is more cheering</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she wrote about the clearing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her other sister <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Traill<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-10" id="noteref-10" epub:type="noteref">10</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though eighty-seven she doth not fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She now is writing of wild flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grown in Canada’s woody bowers.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-addressed-to-an-old-bachelor" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Addressed to an Old Bachelor</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Addressed to Jonathan Wingle, <abbr class="eoc" epub:type="z3998:name-title">Esq.</abbr></p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In summer time we roam o’er dingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But winter draws us round the ingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Why do you remain thus single,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When love would make two hearts tingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray, tell me why my dearest wingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the fair you do not mingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Better with love ’neath cot of shingle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than all your yellow gold to jingle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For married life you would enjoy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon a little girl and boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would your leisure hours employ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Christmas you could buy each toy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fill their little hearts with joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For their amusements never cloy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Business cares do men annoy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Child’s happiness knows no alloy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brantford" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Brantford</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">In these sketches of towns in Southern Ontario we are not vain enough to suppose that because we have produced some lines thereon that said rhymes are poetry. If we furnish an occasional poetic gleam like a dewdrop sparkling in the sun, it is all we dare hope for.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Brantford as thriving city’s famed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And after Indian Chief is named,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And here the sparkling Grand River</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It doth flow a joy forever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Campbell he sang a dismal tale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of horrors of Wyoming’s vale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tale one’s mind doth ever haunt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cruelties of monster Brant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the Chief’s son to England went</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Campbell to him did lament,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the tale he did recant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About cruel butcheries of Brant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now pleasant thoughts it doth awake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Brantford thinks of her namesake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She evermore with pride will chant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bold heroic name of Brant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We sing of two great Indian names,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tecumseh on the banks of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Grand River it doth vaunt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the historic name of Brant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The city’s pride it doth find vent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In building him a monument,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Indians will proudly stalk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Past memorial of great Mohawk.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-power-of-steam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Power of Steam</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We now do sing a new theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is prodigious power of steam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our little fast steam horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How he works with mighty force.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Instead of hay and oats, we thrust</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his mouth chips and saw dust;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which heats the blood in his veins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then how he saws and bores and plains.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He’s never troubled with the botts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all the time he gaily trotts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every day he is full able</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make many a chair and table.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Work for him is only sport,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He feels so good he oft does snort,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he trotts along his course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our little frolicksome steam horse.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-thorold" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Thorold</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">McCready, the great Irish tragedian, said that the view from Thorold was the finest in America.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Thorold is famous for its mills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the grand view from off its hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A view so charming and extended,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nature’s beauties sweetly blended.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poetic thoughts it doth awake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To view Ontario’s broad lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And husbandmen have their reward in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fruits of this Provincial garden.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For from the hill you see below</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gardens where choice fruits do grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The landscape all within your reach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth both produce the grape and peach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>McCready said in the New World</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The finest view was from Thorold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You see <abbr>St.</abbr> Catharines thriving town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And steamers sailing up and down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you can see on a clear day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All along Toronto Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you clearly see the haze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Niagara doth amaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And glance where Grimsby’s gardens yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or view Beamsville’s fruitful field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then this thought you can advance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is Canada’s sunny France.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You see Niagara’s ancient town<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-11" id="noteref-11" epub:type="noteref">11</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it has lost us old renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you have a splendid view</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of boats on old canal and new.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="musings-on-the-northwest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Musings on the Northwest</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Domestic cattle quiet will graze where now the Buffalos roam and in spots now covered o’er with Indian wigwams, where white men never trod cities will occupy their sites with busy trade and millions flock from eastern lands to take possession of the great Northwest. Then Winnipeg perchance may be the capital of the Dominion. In the day foretold when this indeed shall be the “Greater Britain” with Ontario’s towns for workshops for this vast prairie land.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>“Then poets will arise and high their lays will soar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Worthy of the muse of a Burns or a Moore,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A Shakespeare and a Milton, the great and the wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will sing of the glories of our northern skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of its lakes and rivers and its mountains grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of its fertile plains and great prairie land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fit theme for song this empire gigantic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose arms stretch from Pacific to Atlantic.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="crimean-war" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Crimean War</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">At the announcement that Britain was to declare war Kossuth the Hungarian Patriot declared in an address in England that the British Lion was a sea dog but helpless on land.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When the British Lion offered aid to the Turk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round many lips a sneer of serious doubt did lurk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They said he was at home on sea, but when on land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He would be as a ship wrecked upon the strand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or like some huge ungainly crocodile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Upon the marshy banks of sluggish Nile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who could move gaily on the deep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on dry land could scarcely creep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But up the Alma heights he rushed like greyhound after hare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in a moment by the throat he seized the Russian bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which begged so hard for mercy his life he did it spare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And closely now it is confined within its native lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For its strong fortress of Sebastpol</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was forced to submit to Great Britain’s rule.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-christmas-tree" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Christmas Tree</h2>
			<p>
				<span>To night the children meet with glee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To view the fruits on Christmas Tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when its beauties we behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We’re very sorry we are old.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The children all they have good cause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feel grateful to old Santa Claus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to each teacher, and each friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who did these handsome presents send.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To us it is a pleasant treat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With so many friends here to meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve well conducted public school</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where master doth judicious rule;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The union it doth give its strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gives section breadth, as well as length.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nissouri here should build a Hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For exhibitions in the Fall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its claims they cannot be ignored,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For first in township stands Thamesford.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This village keeps up with the age,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it hath a good daily stage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in its efforts never fails</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To carry passengers and mails.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dr-springer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Springer</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on presenting <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Springer with a diamond ring, when he was bidding farewell to Ingersoll, and was about journeying to California.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Though we know we are no singer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet we will chaunt farewell to Springer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of our oldest past grands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About to visit distant lands.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we all sincerely hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You may enjoy Pacific slope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when you gaze on this ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May it pleasant memories bring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of good old Lodge, Samaritan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where friendship makes us all as one;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis hard to strike your name from roll</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With us so long in Ingersoll.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though we regret to say farewell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May blessings rest where ’ere you dwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the partner of your joy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happiness without alloy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-b" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A. B.</abbr></h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Who was expected to attend a Banquet given by the Odd fellows in London nearly thirty years ago. Several of the London Brethern were asking for Brother Abel.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When we went down to London in midst of the champaign</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brother looked at me as though I had been Cain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in a voice of thunder, as I sat at the table,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He fiercely asked of me “where is your Brother Abel?”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To which I did reply “I’m not my brother’s keeper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at home you’ll find him, in his bed asleep, sir.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="burns-and-scott-in-edinburgh" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Burns and Scott in Edinburgh</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Burns did make triumphant entry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong Edina’s famous gentry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A discussion did there arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among those solons learned and wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About some lines by a new poet.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The author’s name none did know it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poem was of Canadian snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how o’er it the blood did flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it had then been swept by war</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where armies met in deadly jar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ’mong philosophers was boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of tender years now Scotland’s joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He there did quickly quote each line</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And author’s name he did define,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Burns glanced at him with loving eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Youth ever more that look did prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The happiest moment in his lot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever revered by Walter Scott.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus Scotlands greatest poets met,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they did part with sad regret.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="galt-and-dunlop" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Galt and Dunlop</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">John Galt was the manager of the Canada Company’s lands, and he was a Scottish Novelist. Dunlop was at one time an eminent British Journalist, but he finally settled near Goderich. The town of Galt is named after John Galt.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>John Galt and Doctor Dunlop witty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They located and planned the city</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of Guelph, and they cut the first tree down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stump was the centre of the town.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From thence the streets radiate like fan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they projected on this same plan</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The towns of Stratford and Goderich,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The last it stands near broad Huron’s beach,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Conspicuous on a bluff so grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Neath which doth flow the clear Maitland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of glorious view you may partake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazing on Huron’s mighty lake.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="agricultural-implements-and-machinery" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Agricultural Implements and Machinery</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Poor laborers they did sad bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the machine displaced the flail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s little work now with the hoes.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since cultivators weed the rows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Labor it became more fickle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the scythe took place of sickle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Labor still it did sink lower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By introduction of mower.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the work was done much cheaper</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they added on the reaper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another machine to it they join,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mower, reaper, binder, all combine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Machines now load and stow away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both the barley and the hay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the farmers do get richer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the loader and the pitcher.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There’s very few men now hand sows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more broad cast the grain it grows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They sow and rake by the machine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hand labor is ’mong the things have been.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Armed with scythes the old war chariot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cut men down in the fierce war riot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round farmers’ chariot fall the slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’tis the sheaves of golden grain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="snake-and-potato-bug" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Snake and Potato Bug</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">A True Tale</p>
				</hgroup>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph">
					<p>“Can such things be and overcome us like a summer cloud, without our special wonder.”</p>
					<cite>Shakespeare</cite>
				</blockquote>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">In a grocery store in Ingersoll our attention was called to a copper-headed snake wriggling in a glass jar. We noticed a peculiarity about its head, but soon found out it was a potato bug, which was afraid of being drowned; and the only above water being the snake’s head and neck, it was fondly clinging thereto. There being “no jutty-frieze buttress or coigne of vantage, where it could make its pendant bed, elsewhere.”</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Some poets they abroad do roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we find themes are near to home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we do seldom travel far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This is a song of a glass jar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Snake of species of the copper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on its head there was live hopper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For we saw that funny sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a store, it was last night.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There in water was a snake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a bug so wide awake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was afraid that he would drown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he clomb up on the snake’s crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This snake it is near a foot long,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which doth suffer this great wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It thinks the bug wants it to throttle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This makes it wriggle in the bottle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But fondly the kind hearted bug,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It doth its preserver hug,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the bug when on the water</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is only but a squatter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And hath taken up homestead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the top of the snake’s head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the waters it doth float</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Safe and happy on this boat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-rabbit-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Rabbit Story</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">At a social society gathering, a quarter of a century ago, a member from a distance was called on by the gentlemen present to tell his Rabbit story. We got up in a few minutes afterward and gave it in verse as follows:⁠—</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Our friend, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Romley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He told the tale homley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And yet full of fun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How the Rabbits did run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In numbers a score,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All around his door.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were red, black and white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their play folks did delight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they got small by degrees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the cats did them seise⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All but one big black Rabbit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He got into the habit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under ground he would dive⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He long time did survive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till owner, wanting fat pot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He this great beast then shot.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When police heard the gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full quickly he did run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a furious rage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his wrath did as‑uage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he got a quarter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the last martyr.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="let-her-go" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Let Her Go</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Will you please to let me go, Ma,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To McIntyre’s, to buy a Sofa.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-autograph" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">An Autograph</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines written at the request of a young lady and inserted in a mental Album. We looked over the book, it was in form of questions and answers. One of the questions was “who is your favorite poet?” We were quite amused to find a number of different persons had written in answer, “McIntyre.” We believe that the most of them were joking, but we hope to inspire them with a loftier idea of our poetic power in the future.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In this Album you may trace⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If not the lineaments of face⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here, at least, you will find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Photographs of the mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some in earnest, some in fun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some do lecture, some do pun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here the maiden and the youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each proclaim some precious truth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And there is some fine pages⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Written by maturer ages⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They show that time is brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That soon comes sere and yellow leaf.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we must cease, ’ere your ire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be aroused ’gainst McIntyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who doth reside in Ingersoll⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps you’ll think that he is droll.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-typewriter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on a Typewriter</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Having received a letter from a gentleman done with a typewriter, and glorying in its superiority to the pen, we replied as follows:⁠—</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>You glory in your typewriter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And its virtues you rehearse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we prefer the old inditer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For to write either prose or verse.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And let each man work his will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But never never do abuse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ancient and glorious quill</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From the wing of a fine old goose.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-12" id="noteref-12" epub:type="noteref">12</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="impromptu" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Impromptu</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On a young girl showing me a scar on her cheek where a stick of wood struck her.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In its own place ’tis very good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Always to have plenty of wood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, striking fair maid, that is rude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And puts me in an angry mood.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-lake" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Little Lake</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Sonnet on an incident which occurred on a small Lake in Northern Ontario.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Pleasant memories it awakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When musing on our northern lakes;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there I saw a charming Reed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A friend to me in hour of need.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I wished to cross to other shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deftly she did ply the oar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the Lake me swiftly bore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was plunged in deep despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before I met this charming fair;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could not go around by land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I felt like shipwrecked on the strand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until fair vision hove in sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Graceful as a fairy sprite.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May she be blest, is the desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her true friend James McIntyre.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="advice-to-a-little-girl" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Advice to a Little Girl</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following lines were written at the request of a little girl, who said she would recite them at a Sunday School entertainment. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Prof.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J. S.</abbr> Blackie of Edinburgh, in a letter acknowledging the receipt of my book, said he considered this piece worthy of being committed to memory in the public schools. Sir Daniel Wilson of Toronto University also approves of them as containing good sentiments and should be impressed on the minds of the young.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Dressing in fashion will be called vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they’ll call you a dowdy if you are plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But do what is right, let that be the test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then proudly hold up your head with the best.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You will never be wrong if you do what is right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this course pursue with all of your might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if you’re a child going to school,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or full grown up take this for your rule.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The best way to do is to let them rave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they’ll think more of you if you are brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For no one will ever think you are rude</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you are determined for to be good.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Little girl on her way to Sunday School class,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rude boys sometimes will not let her pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if they see she is not afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They soon will respect the brave little maid.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Little girls should learn to knit and to sew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then if to womanhood they ever grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their hose they can knit and make their own dress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pathway of life for others they bless.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And their homes they should make tidy and neat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Everything should be so clean and so sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This line for ourselves out we will chalk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we are determined in it to walk.</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i4">For people will talk.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-crooked-looking-glass" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Crooked Looking Glass</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Dangerous effects of seeing onesself in a crooked glass.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A maiden cried, “Alas!</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With horror I’ll expire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unless you bring me</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That true glass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I bought of McIntyre.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-providential-escape" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Providential Escape</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Providential escape of Ruby and Neil McLeod, children of Angus McLeod of this town. Little Neil McKay McLeod, a child of three years of age, was carried under a covered raceway, upwards of one hundred yards, the whole distance being either covered o’er with roadway, buildings or ice.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A wondrous tale we now do trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of little children fell in race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youngest of these little dears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boy’s age is but three years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While coasting o’er the treacherous ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These precious pearls of great price,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The elder Ruby, the daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was rescued from the ice cold water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But horrid death each one did feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had sure befallen little Neil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Consternation all did fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they cried shut down the mill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But still no person they could tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What had the poor child befell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The covered race, so long and dark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hopes there scarcely seemed a spark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Was he held fast as if in vice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wedged ’mong the timbers and the ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or was there for him ample room</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to float down the narrow flume.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Had he found there a watery grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or borne along on crest of wave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Think of the mother’s agony wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazing through dark tunnel for her child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon as Partlo’ started mill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through crowd there ran a joyous thrill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he was quickly borne along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The little hero of our song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas! of life there is no trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he is black all over face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though he then seemed as if in death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet quickly they restored his breath.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Think now how mother<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-13" id="noteref-13" epub:type="noteref">13</a> she adored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her sweet dear child to her restored,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her boundless gratitude</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto the author of all good.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Swept through dark passage ’neath the road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saved only by the hand of God,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No wonder Father now feels proud</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of little Niel McKay McLeod.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-cheese-pioneer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Cheese Pioneer</h2>
				<p>Lines on Rannie, the cheese pioneer, written a quarter century ago.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Rannie began with just two cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which he in winter fed on brouse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now he hath got mighty herds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Numerous as flock of birds;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May he long live, our hearts to cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This great and useful Pioneer.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-birds-nest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Bird’s Nest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An old man who had charge of field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With pride he saw two birds did build,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A broad capacious warm nest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of young with speckled breast,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when the old man there did pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They soon ran merry ’mong the grass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of the youth they were so shy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They made strong efforts for to fly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Youths tried with old man to prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To let them blaze away at quail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But though they longed for a fat pot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At them they never got a shot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more the old man doth them shield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they have flown to broader field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long may they spread their wings and tail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may no foe them ’ere assail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-removal" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Removal</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come, listen, while we sound the lyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To announce the fact, that McIntyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is back again to his old block,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he has got a splendid stock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He also hath a strong desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see old friends, and new acquire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His Furniture is cheap and good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In every style and kind of wood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But none in health need ’ere despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If they buy from him an easy chair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you his Warehouse then do seek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis where the brick bridge spans the creek.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="departed-statesmen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Departed Statesmen</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">With a glance at Sir John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">A.</abbr> Macdonald and Blake, the two living leaders, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Joseph Howe, none higher stood than thou,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thou wert a man with lofty brow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>D’Arcy McGee, so brilliant and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From green isle you came o’er the sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>George Cartier to the French ever dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So high you stood without a peer;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>John Sandfield<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-14" id="noteref-14" epub:type="noteref">14</a> for long you did build</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Power under economy’s shield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>George Brown, thou man of renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Confederation you did crown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You now are all free from the strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wrangle and jangle of political life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But if a glance at this world you take</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You will there see John <abbr epub:type="z3998:personal-name">A.</abbr> and Blake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Sir John the greatest power doth wield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our Canadian Beaconsfield.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-15" id="noteref-15" epub:type="noteref">15</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-concert-impromptu" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">A Concert⁠—Impromptu</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following impromptu was delivered in the Methodist Church Concert, March, 1883. It was expected that several announced in bills world take part, but from various causes they were not present. We were unexpectedly requested to fill one of the vacencies. Doctor Gardiner delivered an address, showing how he had triumphed o’er the great snow drifts during the remarkably severe winter then passing away, that we thought his courage and perseverance was worthy of being commemorated in verse; and the music of the White Brothers though simple, is natural, touching and sweet, and reaches the heart more easily than some of the highly artistic styles now in vogue, on arising, we first gave some recitations from the Poets and concluded with the following Impromptu. It was of course impossible for me to have anticipated any of the above occurrences, as the Doctors speech took the turn it did from the remarks of a previous speaker.</p>
			</header>
			<section id="on-white-brothers">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On White Brothers</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To us it is a pleasing sight,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To see so many here to night;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All listening with so much delight</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Unto those worthy men of might</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The charming songsters, Brothers White.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="on-doctor-gardner">
				<h3 epub:type="title">On Doctor Gardner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Gardner told a sad tale of woe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How he was oft o’erwhelmed in snow;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But was he frightened? no! no!! no!!!</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He onward cheerfully did go,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And though that he did freeze his cheek</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The fire side he did never seek.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But straight went onward, in his course,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So happy, driving his good horse,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And merrily along the way</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The bells did ring around his sleigh.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="in-memoriam" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">In Memoriam</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on the death of my son, Alexander Murray McIntyre, who died on the anniversary of his mother’s death, after being injured in my Furniture Factory. He died, after several days of great suffering, in July 5th, 1876.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>His mother from celestial bower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the self-same day and hour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her death or heavenly birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazed again upon the earth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saw her gentle, loving boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once source of fond maternal joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In anguish on a couch of pain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knew that earthly hopes were vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And beckoned him to realms above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To share with her the heavenly love.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brodie-castle" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Brodie Castle</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following sonnet on Brodie Castle Nairnshire, Scotland, was written by my venerable Uncle, Thomas McIntyre, of <abbr>St.</abbr> Catherines, and father of John <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">B.</abbr> McIntyre, Ex-Grand Master of the Independant Order of Odd Fellows, and now, and for many years, an Alderman of the city of <abbr>St.</abbr> Catherines. It was written by him as an acrostic on the words Brodie Castle. I have taken the liberty of transfusing it into common verse. The lines prove the old gentlemen to be kind hearted and as having a great affection for his native land. He has been in. <abbr>St.</abbr> Catherines for half a century, engaged in the same business I have been employed in for about one-third of a century, in Ingersoll.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Scotland has produced three great shepherds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Talford, the inventor of Suspension Bridges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ferguson, the Astronomer, and Hogg the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ettrick shepherd, the great song writer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brodie Castle, ever dear to my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there I first played my humble part.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When only thirteen, I there had employ.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the position of a shepherd boy;</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For I was born on that fine estate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Famed for its trees, so lofty and great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its magnificent avenue grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which hath been famed over the land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And, though I did leave to learn my trade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in Western world a home I have made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet, when I look back, my heart it still cheers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it is now more than threescore years.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Since first I went there as a shepherd boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thoughts of the time fill my heart yet with joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though, that I ne’er shall see Castle more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fond memory reverts to the days of yore.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="george-menzies-poems" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">George Menzies’ Poems</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>1883.</p>
					<p>About one-third of a century ago, there flourished in Canada three Scottish Editors, all of whom were Poets, McQueen of the “Huron Signal,” Goderich, who wrote a grand song on “Our Broad Lake,” McGeorge, of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Streetsville Review</i>, who returned to Scotland nearly a quarter of a century ago; he became a clergymen in connection with the Episcopal Church, of Oban, Argyleshire, and was dean thereof; he enjoyed the friendship of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> Norman McLeod, and many of the Scottish celebrities; he died this spring highly honored by all who knew him. George Menzie, Editor of a Woodstock paper, wrote, also, some fine poems. All of the gentlemen named have gone to “the land of the Leal,” the following lines were suggested by finding a volume by George Menzie.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>One day while passing ’long the road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a small book we almost trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its leaves were scattered o’er the ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We picked them up and when we found</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The author’s name, it did inspire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Us with a very strong desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To read the little volume through,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For most of it to us was new.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He doth sing of land of heather</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Canadian scenes together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He did adore Niagara’s roar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where mighty flood o’er fall doth pour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But poets lives are often brief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he had his full share of grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which to his life did gloom impart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he bore up with his brave heart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="female-revenge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Female Revenge</h2>
				<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
					<p>
						<span>“Revenge is sweet, especially to women.”</span>
					</p>
					<cite>Byron</cite>
				</blockquote>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Remarkable strong vengeance on the part of a young lady who had always previously been considered of an amiable turn of mind; but, how sadly, alas! for the young man, her whole being, as it were, seemed to be transformed into vengeance dire, against the poor unfortunate youth who had vainly and rashly boasted of a glorious prize he intended to capture from the fair one’s sweet lips.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>I heard Bill say to-day, Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That you are a charming fairy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that to town he’d give you drive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But just as sure as you’re alive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He does intend to have the bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of stealing from your lips a kiss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I’ll let him drive me now, Jane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His efforts they will all be vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hate him, and I him defy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And anger flashed from her eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monster’s wiles I will defeat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peck of strong onions I will eat.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-canadian-romance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Canadian Romance<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-16" id="noteref-16" epub:type="noteref">16</a></h2>
			<p>
				<span>An English youth to Canada came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A labourer, John Roe by name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His little wealth had made him bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twenty sovereigns in gold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was industrious and wise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And e’en small sums did not despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He added to his wealth each year</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For independence he loved dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knew a laborer he would be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forever in the old country,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His forefathers had tilled the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never one had saved a pound.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On beds of down they did not lie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And frugally their goods did buy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their one luxury around their door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A few choice flowers their garden bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But never hoped to own the soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But serve as hinds to sweat and toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To work and toil for him had charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He hoped some day to own a farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he hired with Reuben Tripp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wealthiest man in the township.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tripp’s only child, his daughter Jane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sought her love and not in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As Jacob served for Rachel dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So John he served year after year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till rich enough to buy bush farm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to chop down with his strong arm.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The truest nobleman of all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He lives not in ancestral hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sheltereth family from harm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By logs rolled up by his strong arm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this young glorious land so free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each may rear his own roof tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the chief glory of old days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broad fire place where big logs did blaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As much as four strong men could handle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They served alike for heat and candle;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He his young oxen did adorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fine gay ribbons on each horn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to his home with joy and pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He did bring sweet blooming bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Such happiness is seldom seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happier far than king or queen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She helped him in the fields to reap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spun the wool from off the sheep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All they required they had for both,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of her own weaving of good cloth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she was a good tailoress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did make his coat and her own dress;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The golden butter that she made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was of the very finest grade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each grace and virtue she possess’d,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where’er she was, that spot was blessed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though they did not have stove then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Neither did they own an oven;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She filled large pot with well knead dough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And baked fine bread ’mong embers glow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He each winter the forest trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did quickly hew them down with ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he to work had a desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the skill did soon acquire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But round great giants hewed a ring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then storms would soon them prostrate bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For many a time the furious breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would quick o’erthrow the girdled trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sometimes they would kill the cows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they did feed on grass or browse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But after reckoning damage all</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A benefit was each windfall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though good fortune now he sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Might have been got from Walnut trees;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But trees were foes in his hurry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All were slain, both oak and cherry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to this day he doth incline</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To mourn o’er slaughter of the pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reflects how he did o’erwhelm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many a maple, beech and elm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each summer day did toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his steers drawing logs in pile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These giants of the forest dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fire did reduce to an ash bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon potatoes, wheat and corn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They did the rugged stumps adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Jane did help him with the hoe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And well she did keep her row:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No organs then they had to play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she could work and sing all day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In spring he did live maples tap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To draw from them the luscious sap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He gathered it in big log trough,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then boiled it down and sugared off,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough the household for to cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all its sweets for the whole year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no such thing those times were seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As the swift raising stump machine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where main road was low and damp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With logs he built a road through swamp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a smooth ride could not enjoy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While it was naught but corduroy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each year added earth and gravel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now smoothly o’er they can travel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it doth make an excellent road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For John and Jane to go abroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it is now a great highway</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where hundreds travel every day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There were no roads in early days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bridle path, their guide the blaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mills and marts so far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They never could return same day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Log school house served as church for all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of various creeds, and for town hall.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These scenes to youth do now seem strange</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So wondrous quick hath been the change,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er paths where oxen only trod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cows quickly speed o’er the railroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And every way both up and down</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There has sprung up a thriving town.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more he fights with forest trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But both enjoy their wealth and ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long since the old folks both are gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left the whole to Jane and John;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The log house now has passed away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all its chinks filled in with clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in its place fine house of stone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With lawn where choice shrubs are grown.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With sons and daughters they are blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The young men say they’ll move Northwest;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This gives their mother some alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She wants them still on the home farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But father will not have them tarry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They can plow so quick on prairie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they find coal makes a good fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And build their fences of barbed wire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would not be forever gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they could talk by telephone.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="o-for-a-lodge" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">O for a Lodge</h2>
			<p>
				<span>“O for a lodge in some vast wilderness”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man cried out in his distress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he was tired and sick of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weary of this worldly strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And longed for to be far away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the continuous daily fray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the fond partner of his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His own dearest, loving wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those sentiments did not admire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fiercely they did rouse her ire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said she, I’ll never let you budge</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To go and join another lodge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your lodges take six nights each week,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And still another lodge you seek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For your whole time they soon will steal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You won’t get home even to a meal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Continuous abroad you’ll roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never enter your own home.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="potato-bug-exterminators" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Potato Bug Exterminators</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">During the summer of 1883 we were walking along past a large field of potatoes in North Oxford, where we beheld the strange spectacle of a pair of bipeds drilling their offspring to march up one potato row and down the other, so as to annihilate the enemy, who had assembled in vast armies, dressed in yellow garments, and who were committing fearful depredations on the fruits of the husbandmen, until the valuable auxilliary forces rushed to the rescue of the farmer, o’erwhelming the enemy and with one fell swoop, bringing on them consternation and ruin dire. It appears that the foe, or their progenitors, had been citizens of Colorado in the far West. And that, having conquered all before them, they sought another World to conquer here.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When we do trace out nature’s laws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And view effects, and muse on cause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the future there’s great hope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If we our eyes do only ope.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy they will often glisten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If to truth one doth but listen;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But people often turn deaf ear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what is useful will not hear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now for a minute, lend your luggs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our theme, it is potato bugs.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just buy a pair of young peafowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their voice may be like to screech owl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon as the potato shows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You there will find the peafowl goes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Up one row and down the other</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like loving sister with brother.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you will find that down their muggs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have disappeared potato bugs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s no more need of Paris green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they will keep potatoes clean.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And faithful they will work all day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to them ’tis gay sport and play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more you need their voice bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But admire beauties of the tail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dried-apples" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Dried Apples</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines suggested by examining the fruit evaporator at <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Elgin.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We fear to say, and yet we must,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dried apples once were full of dust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you all know it is no joke.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saturate with tobacco smoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the hole where string did go through</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was nest for animalcule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And collected the kitchen steam.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But process now is sweet and clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Viewed with pleasure by spectator,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Work of the evaporator.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wars-in-queen-victorias-reign" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wars in Queen Victoria’s Reign</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We will now sing in thoughtful strain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of wars in Queen Victoria’s reign.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Russian bear did ages lurk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All ready for to spring on Turk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Russian statesmen did divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That they should conquer Constantine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But like a greyhound after hare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Lion did drive back the Bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And made it feel the British rule</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At gates of strong Sebastopol.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then insolent was Persia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till Lion had to dictate law,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while engaged in scenes like these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was attacked by the Chinese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for this outrage all so wanton</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He then resolved to seize on Canton.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon there came a dismal cry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of slaughter’d Britons from Delhi,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Bengal Tiger sick with gore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did tremble at the Lion’s roar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Britain got a serious shock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By losing of brave Havelock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Campbell ’mid a numerous foe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full quick these armed hosts did o’erthrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Abyssinian dungeons vile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay captives of Great Britain’s isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon the tyrant Theodore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lay sadly weltering in his gore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The savage tribes of Ashantee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From British troops did quickly flee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Afghan and Zulu wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many did find their deadly scars;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the land of the Pharaohs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Christians suffered cruel woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till in Alexandria Bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The British iron clads did display,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty power they did wield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While their steel sides from harm did shield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And British army on the land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marched bravely o’er the burning sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Arabi found ’twas useless labor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His strong trench of Tel-el-Kebir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Egyptians did not wish to feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their breasts cold British steel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their great power was soon laid low</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Wolseley entered Grand Cairo.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Egyptians now no more revile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Christians on the banks of Nile.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have sung three heroes’ names.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Havelock from the land of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Campbell from the banks of Clyde,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Wolseley from Liffy’s side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When rose, thistle, shamrock unite</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They do prove victors in the fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now Britain once more does command</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Respect alike on sea and land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now may wars forever cease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And mankind ever live in peace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="english-poets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">English Poets</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">We had the honour of delivering in 1864 the principal address at the tercentennial anniversary of Shakespeare in the Town Hall, Ingersoll, before a large audience, and we read the following ode on the occasion:</p>
			</header>
			<section id="tercentenary-ode-on-shakspeare">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Tercentenary Ode on Shakespeare</h3>
					<blockquote epub:type="epigraph z3998:verse">
						<p>
							<span>“Shakespeare requires no marble monument,</span>
							<br/>
							<span>He lives forever in our wonder and astonishment.”</span>
						</p>
						<cite>Ben Jonson</cite>
					</blockquote>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>Three centuries have passed away</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since that most famous April day,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When the sweet, gentle Will was born,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Whose name the age will e’re adorn.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That great Elizabethan age</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Does not leave on history’s page,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A name so bright he stands like Saul,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A head and shoulders over all.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Delineator of mankind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who shows the workings of the mind,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And in review in nature’s glass,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Portrays the thoughts of every class.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>That man is dull who will not laugh</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the drolleries of Falstaff,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And few that could not shed a tear</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At sorrows of poor old King Lear.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or lament o’er King Duncan’s death</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Stabbed by the dagger of McBeth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Or gentle Desdemona pure,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Slain by the misled jealous Moor.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Or great Caesar mighty Roman</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who o’ercame his country’s foemen,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His high deeds are all in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For by his countrymen he’s slain.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>The greatest of heroic tales</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Is that of Harry, Prince of Wales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who in combat fought so fiercely</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With the brave and gallant Percy.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Imagination’s grandest theme</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tempest or midsummer’s dream,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Hamlet’s philosophic blaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of shattered reason’s flickering rays.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And now in every land on earth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They commemorate Shakespeare’s birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And there is met on Avon’s banks</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Men of all nations and all ranks.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>And here upon Canadian Thames</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The gentle maids and comely dames</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Do meet and each does bring her scroll</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of laurel leaves from Ingersoll.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="milton">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Milton</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like mightiest organ in full tone,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melodious, grand, is great Milton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He did in lofty measures tell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>How Satan, great archangel, fell,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When from heaven downward hurled;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And how he ruined this our world,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So full of guile he did deceive</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Our simple hearted parent Eve.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shows how pardon is obtained</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And paradise may be regained.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="coleridge-southey-and-wordsworth">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Coleridge, Southey and Wordsworth</h3>
				<p>
					<span>England had triplets at a birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Coleridge, Southey and Wordsworth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And these three are widely famed,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And the “Lake Poets” they were named.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With joy they did pursue their themes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>’Mong England’s lakes and hills and streams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From there with gladness they could view</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The distant Scottish mountains blue.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="shelly">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Shelly</h3>
				<p>
					<span>We have scarcely time to tell thee</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the strange and gifted Shelly,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Kind hearted man but ill-fated,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So youthful, drowned and cremated.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="byron">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Byron</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Poets they do pursue each theme,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Under a gentle head of steam,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Save one who needed fierce fire on,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The brilliant, passionate Byron.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His child Harold’s pilgrimage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever will the world engage;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He fought with glory to release</span>
					<br/>
					<span>From Turkish yoke the isles of Greece,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Its glories oft by him were sung,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>This wondrous bard, alas, died young.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="tennyson">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tennyson</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Of our Laureate we now do sing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His youthful muse had daring wing,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He then despised Baronhood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And sang ’twas noble to be good.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>None sang like him of knights of old,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He England’s glory did uphold;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wondrous song he hath arrayed</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glorious charge of light brigade,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And he hath the people’s benison,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Greatest of living poets Tennyson.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="dryden-and-pope">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Dryden and Pope</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Genius of Dryden and of Pope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Both did take a mighty scope,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The first he Virgil did translate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The second showed us Troys fate.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On English themes they oft did sing</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And high their muses flight did wing.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="irish-poets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Irish Poets</h2>
			<section id="tim-moore">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Tim Moore</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Moore found the ballads of Green Isle</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Were oft obscured beneath the soil,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>As miner digging in a mine</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Finds rubbish ’mong the gold so fine,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So Moore placed dross in the waste basket</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And enshrined jewels in casket,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where all may view each charming gem</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In Ireland’s grand old diadem.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>In eastern lands his fame prevails</span>
					<br/>
					<span>In wondrous oriental tales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>So full of gems his Lala Rookh,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Hindus and Brahmins read his book,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And dark eyed Persian girls admire</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The beauty of his magic lyre,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Glowing like pearls of great price</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Those distant gleams of paradise.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sang of Bryan Borohm’s glory,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Renowned in ancient Irish story,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And shows the wide expanded walls</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Which once encircled Tara’s Halls,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>When joyous harp did there resound</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And Ireland’s greatest king was crowned,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>All wars and tumults then did cease,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ireland did prosper great in peace.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sung of meeting of the waters</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And of Ireland’s charming daughters,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Great minstrel from his harp both flows,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Ireland’s triumphs and her woes,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Canada doth his fame prolong</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While she doth sing his great boat song,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And his own countrymen adore</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The genial, witty, bright Tom Moore.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="t-d-mckee">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. D.</abbr> McKee</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">While referring to past glories of Ireland, perhaps we might refer to that great Irish Historian, the late Honourable <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">T. D.</abbr> McKee, of whom we have written a poem in the earlier portion of this work, and we will give you an anecdote of him while here, showing his ready wit while he was rising from the supper table around which was a number of guests assembled, all eyes being naturally turned on him as the great centre of attraction, but the chair, being new, stuck to him; he instantly exclaimed, I wish the Montreal people were as anxious to retain me in my seat as you are in Ingersoll. He being a member for Montreal, wrote a fine poem on the <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence, where in Cartier describes to the King, on his return to Europe, the great river.</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>“He told them of a river whose mighty torrent gave</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A freshness for a hundred leagues to ocean’s briney wave.”</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="oliver-goldsmith">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Oliver Goldsmith</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Goldsmith wrote of deserted village,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Now again reduced to tillage,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Once happiest village of the plain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The place you look for it in vain,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>There but one man he doth make rich,<br/></span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>“I’ll fare the land to many ills a prey</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Where wealth accumulates but men decay.”</span>
					<br/>
					<span>While hundreds struggle in the ditch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His honest vicar of Wakefield,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever he will pleasure yield.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="american-poets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">American Poets</h2>
			<section id="longfellow">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Longfellow</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Like fruit that’s large and ripe and mellow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Sweet and luscious is Longfellow,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-17" id="noteref-17" epub:type="noteref">17</a></span>
					<br/>
					<span>Melodious songs he oft did pour</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And high was his Excelsior.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He shows in his Psalm of Life</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The folly of our selfish strife,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>With Hiawatha we bewail</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His suffering in great Indian tale.</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Indian nation was forlorn</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Till great spirit planted corn;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His story of Evangeline</span>
					<br/>
					<span>It is a tale of love divine.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="poe">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Poe</h3>
				<p>
					<span>A great enchanter too is Poe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His bells do so harmonious flow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wondrous mystery of his raven</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On our minds is ’ere engraven,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>His weird, wonderful romances</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Imagination oft entrances.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="lowell">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lowell</h3>
				<p>
					<span>With pleasure we would love to dwell</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On the charming themes of Lowell.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="bryant">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Bryant</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Some in front rank will defiant,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boldly place the poet Bryant.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="whittier">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Whittier</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Others seek for music in the twitter</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of the sweet, charming notes of Whittier.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="saxe">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Saxe</h3>
				<p>
					<span>The mind that’s sad it doth relax</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The humor of the witty Saxe,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He puts us in a cheerful mood,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Mirthful as our own Tom Hood.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="will-carleton">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Will Carleton</h3>
				<p>
					<span>In homely apparel one</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Clothes farming songs Will Carleton,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>But they have a manly ring</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And we his praises hearty sing.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="millar">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Millar</h3>
				<p>
					<span>And Millar poet of Sierras,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For bold deeds he doth prepare us,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And now he lives by the golden gate,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Honored in California’s state,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To poet ’tis position grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Commissioner of Forest land.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="holmes">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Holmes</h3>
				<p>
					<span>O’er flowery fields full oft he roams,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The learned and pleasing genial Holmes.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
			<section id="walt-whitman">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Walt Whitman</h3>
				<p>
					<span>For erratic style he leads van,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Wildly wayward Walt Whitman,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He done grand work in civil war,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For he did dress many a scar,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And kindly wet the hot parched mouth</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of Northern soldiers wounded South.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="scottish-poets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Scottish Poets</h2>
			<section id="robert-burns">
				<header>
					<h3 epub:type="title">Robert Burns</h3>
					<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following ode was read by the author at the Centennial Anniversary of Burns in the year 1859.</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span>This night shall never be forgot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For humble life none now despise,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Since Burns was born in lowly cot</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Whose muses wing soars to the skies.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Round Scotia’s brow he wove a wreath</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And raised her name in classic story</span>
					<br/>
					<span>A deathless fame he did bequeath,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">His country’s pride, his country’s glory.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He sang her hills, he sang her dales,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Of Bonnie Doon and Banks of Ayr,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Of death and Hornbook and such tales</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">As Tam O’Shanter and his mare.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>He bravely taught that manly worth</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">More precious is than finest gold,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>He reckoned not on noble birth,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But noble deeds alone extolled.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Where will we find behind the plow</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Or in the harvest field at toil</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Another youth, sweet bard, like thou,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Could draw the tear or raise the smile.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>We do not think ’twas Burns’ fault,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">For there were no teetotalers then,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>That Willie brewed a peck of malt</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And Robin preed like other men.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>’Tis true he loved the lasses dear,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">But who for this would loudly blame,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>For Scotia’s maids his heart did cheer</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">And love is a true heavenly flame.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>So here we’ve met in distant land</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Poor honest Robin to extol,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Though oft we differ let us stand</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">United now in Ingersoll.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="reply-to-the-toast-of-scottish-poets" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reply to the Toast of Scottish Poets</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Burns sang so sweet behind the plow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Daisies we’ll wreath around his brow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Musing on thee what visions throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of floods you poured of Scottish song.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scott he did write romancing rhymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of chivalry of ancient times;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For tender feeling none can cope</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Campbell the sweet Bard of hope.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eye with sympathetic tear in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will shed it for Exile of Erin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Tannahill while at his loom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wove flowers of song will ever bloom.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hogg, Ettrick Shepherd, did gain fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By singing when the Kie comes hame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With good time coming Bard McKay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Still merrily doth cheer the way.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-south-of-scotland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on South of Scotland</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The South of Scotland did produce</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heroic Wallace and the Bruce,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even time will never blot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The record of her Burns and Scott,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Tanahill renowned bard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that sweet songster Ettrick Shepherd.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-shires-on-the-moray-frith" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Shires on the Moray Frith</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Worthy of either song or story</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are the shires round Frith of Moray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here lies the valley of Strathspey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Famed for its music, lively, gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elgin cathedral’s ’prentice aisle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is glory of that ruined pile.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What modern chisel now could trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fine sculpture of that ancient place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Forres famed for Sweyn’s stane</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In honor of that kingly Dane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Graved with warriors runes and rhymes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Long prior to historic times,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a thousand years its been forgot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who was victor Dane or Scot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is the country of McBeth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where good King Duncan met his death,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And barren heath that place of fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stood witches cauldron of Shakespeare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nairn’s Cawdor castle strong remains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full worthy of the ancient Thanes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And nestled ’neath the hills and bens</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Queen of the moors, the lochs and glens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full proudly stands in vale of bliss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chief Highland town of Inverness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near here the famous falls of Foyers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Burns and others tuned their lyres,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the fatal field of dark Culloden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where doughty clans were once down trodden,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here men yet wear the tartan plaid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ready to join the Highland Brigade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the Frith you look across</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The eye beholds Sutherland and Ross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Duke has harnessed mighty team,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plows hills and rocks and moors by steam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps it may in part atone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For cruel clearings days bygone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Cromarty, whose wondrous mason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>First learned his geologic lesson,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Friends may rear a stately pillar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The old red sand stone of Hugh Miller,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ben Wyvis towers like monarch crowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Conspicuous o’er the hills around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With crest ’ere white with driven snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strathpeffer’s water cure below.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-read-at-st-andrews-anniversary" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Read at <abbr>St.</abbr> Andrew’s Anniversary</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>1868.</p>
					<p>The following is a clipping from an old Ingenoll paper on <abbr>St.</abbr> Andrew’s Anniversary, 30th November, 1868:</p>
					<p>The Anniversary of Scotia’s tetular saint was celebrated on Monday with great éclat by a dinner at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Douglass’ Hotel. The spread on the occasion was excellent; not only Scotia’s sons, but many who came from merry England and the Green Isle were present. After the cloth had been removed <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> McIntyre took the chair, and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Sorley the vice chair. Songs, speeches and toasts became the order of the evening. The following original piece was rendered by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> McIntyre in good style:⁠—</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Scotia’s sons to-night we meet thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With kindly feelings we do greet thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In honor of the land of heather,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around this board to-night we gather.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Land where the fields for border edges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Have garlands of blooming hedges,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Land of the whin and of the broom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where the bonnie blue bells bloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Land where you may enraptured hark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To heavenly song of the skylark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which soars triumphant in the skies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Above the gaze of human eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Land of bleak hills and fertile dales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where they tell oft their fairy tales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Land where the folks do love the kirk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the Sabbath cease from work.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Land of porridge and of brose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of blue bonnets and of tartan hose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The land where all good wives do bake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thrifty, wholesome, oaten cake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We hope some day to tread the strand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of our own dear native land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see the lasses shear the corn<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-18" id="noteref-18" epub:type="noteref">18</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near the banks of the Findhorn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where the Jeans and the Maggies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Excel in making glorious baggies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the sea we’ll some day sail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To get a bowl of good green kail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-the-north-of-scotland" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on the North of Scotland</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines on the North of Scotland, delivered in Embro nearly a quarter of a century ago:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Scotsmen have wandered far and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Moray Frith to Frith of Clyde;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>McDonald, from his sea girt isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Campbell from his broad Argyle⁠–⁠</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But chiefly here you have come forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From those countries of the north;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some oft have trod Dunrobins’s Halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gazed upon its stately walls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here to-night in this array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is Murray, McKenzie and McKay;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there doth around us stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Munroe, Ross and Sutherland.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your young men have high honour earned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In all of the professions learned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your Bonnie Lasses sung in song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And youths are famed for muscle strong.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prince-charlies-grandsons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Prince Charlie’s Grandsons</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>Oft’ times these handsome gentlemen appeared in the garb of old Gaul.</p>
					<p>In the year 1843 we were, though but a boy, at a fair at Cawdor Castle. Readers of Shakespeare’s <i epub:type="se:name.publication.play">Macbeth</i> will have often found Cawdor mentioned therein; the village of Cawdor is but a few miles from Culloden Moor. While we were there the old Highland people, in their broken English, were declaring that the Stuarts<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-19" id="noteref-19" epub:type="noteref">19</a> were collecting arms, and that the Clans were going to join them; those gentlemen wore the Highland garb, and were highly respected. They had lived in Cawdor for some years; one ox them built a Hermitage of wicker-work on high bank of river, which remains entire and in good repair to the present day.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Long ’ere Her Majesty the Queen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had visited of Aberdeen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Ere she in castle did abide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong glorious hills on the Dee side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or visited each Highland glen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or won the hearts of Highland men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here oft’ was seen in celtic dress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two Stewarts brave in Inverness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well worthy of the poet’s lyre.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They claimed Prince Charlie as grandsire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that they also did combine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stuart with Royal Polish line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their names Sobieskie, Stuart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They won many a Highland heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Royal order did go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To build Balmoral Castle North,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then wondrous change was quickly seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All hearts were captured by the Queen.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="scottish-names-in-oxford-county" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Scottish Names in Oxford County</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We have the Murray and McKay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the country of Lord Rae;<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-20" id="noteref-20" epub:type="noteref">20</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>McKenzie too from many a loch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Dingwall, Fain, and old Dornoch.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="facts-about-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Facts About Cheese</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">When the price of cheese was so low a few years ago that the dairymen seriously thought of giving up the manufacture of cheese and of selling their cows, we published the following lines and distributed them by the thousand:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Price soon will rise, though now ’tis low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brooks of milk will onward flow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were it collected in one stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There would be floods of milk and cream.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-21" id="noteref-21" epub:type="noteref">21</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fairy-tale-1" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fairy Tale</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Babies carried off and changed by fairies. In mid winter of last winter of 1884, in Burghed, in the North of Scotland, around great fires, incantations were pronounced to drive away the evil spirits. The custom has come down from the time of the Druids.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Where’er you find the Fisher folk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There, under superstitions yoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a strong faith ’mong them prevails.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of truth of witch and fairy tales.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They think that witch could hurl a shaft</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which would o’erwhelm their fishing craft,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For witches do with Satan truck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They can give good or bring bad luck;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fish women do their children teach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bait the lines down on the beach;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Themselves do wade in sea for net</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So husband’s feet will not get wet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the women are barefooted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the men are heavy booted.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In Fisher, Town of Cromarty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There once did meet a noisy party,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Confusion worse than Babel’s Tower,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It did prevail for a whole hour;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When from sea shore wives did return</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one did find good cause to mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For each babe was left in cradle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had been changed, ’tis no fable;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They said ’twas fairies did them change,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left with them but weaklings strange.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old wife, to end confusion wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said each must bring to her the child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon mothers they did find their dears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And did wipe then from eyes all tears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While few young men across the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They glorious did enjoy the fray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For while the mothers were at beach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They changed all babes within their reach.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="st-andrew" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title"><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Andrew</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Read at Anniversary.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Our ancient custom to renew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We meet to honor <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Andrew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was of the Jewish nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fisherman by occupation;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No warlike knight with lance and sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But humbly following his Lord;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Scotia she justly claims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her soil contains his last remains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In early times the Pilgrims drew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the shrine of <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Andrew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For miracles it gained renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thence sprang up <abbr>St.</abbr> Andrew’s town;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now clansmen twine round maple leaf,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-22" id="noteref-22" epub:type="noteref">22</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>When rallying at the call of chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And time will come when we’ll be one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And proud of name Canadian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Scotia must not be forgot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For sake of Chalmers, Burns and Scott,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here upon Canadian soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man may own where he doth toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here each may enjoy the charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of owning fine prairie farm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="halloween" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Halloween</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A tale we’ll tell of what hath been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When maids and youths kept Halloween,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is a tale of old world lore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What happened in the days of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When fairies danced upon the green</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So merrily on Halloween,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And witches did play many a trick</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Assisted by their auld friend Nick,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lovers meet around the fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near to the one their hearts desire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to burn nuts for to discover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The truthfulness of their lover.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They first did give each nut a name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This was Sandy, that was Jane.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If they did blaze side by side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knew her husband, he his bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But if one up the chimney flew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One knew the other was not true.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And one sure test did never fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blindfold to find good stock of kale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pull the first comes to the hand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With heavy roots of earth and sand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the very weight of mould</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Does denote weight of lovers gold.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In tubs children love to splatter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ducking for apples in the water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For such were the delights of yore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which soon will cease for evermore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At Balmoral Castle Britain’s Queen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oft’ celebrated Halloween,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Highland landlords now do clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Land of men to make room for deer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here upon Canadian soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man may own where he doth toil.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lorne-and-louise" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lorne and Louise</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines written on the arrival of Governor Lorne and the Princess Louise in Canada.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The tidings now all hearts do please,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she has landed safe, Louise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victoria’s beloved daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who boldly has crossed the water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For royal Princess doth adorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The title of the Lord of Lorne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For this union it doth join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Campbell with Royal Stewart line;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lorne will be Duke of broad Argyle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the Lord of many an Isle.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he inherits broad domain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May he strive tenants hearts to gain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To us it seems a brighter morn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath dawned on us with Governor Lorne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when they visited this place</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True happiness beamed on each face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first white child who here was born</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Presented was to Governor Lorne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Forest ’ere it was reclaimed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our fine town after him was named.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="elf-shot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Elf Shot</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following appeared as a prose tale in a Scottish paper published in New York. We have endeavoured to add to the dramatic effect thereof in our rendering it into verse:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A lad brought up in Highland vale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who did believe each fairy tale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which his grannie oft’ to him told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of witches and of warlocks bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he himself would often pour</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For hours reading wizard lore.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One night his mother to the town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a hurry sent him down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So o’er his pony he did stride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to the town did fearful ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought that demons they would rush</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On him from every rock and bush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as he rode through the quarry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It did great increase his flurry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He felt that fiends with fiercest hate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would surely there seal fast his fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But town he reached and ’neath his vest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He parcel pressed close to his breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The pony now he mounts once more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to pass quarry as before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, alas, at that fatal spot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He heard a gun, he was elf shot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He felt that from his breast a flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was pouring down of his heart’s blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he clung fast to pony’s back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though loss of blood his frame did rack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in spite of his alarms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He resolved to die in mother’s arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he reached his own door</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said that he was drenched in gore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From bullet hole all in his breast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His father opened up his vest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he did sadly fear the worst</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But found yeast bottle had but burst.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gordon-cumming-the-lion-hunter" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Gordon Cumming⁠—The Lion Hunter</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Some thirty years ago, in conversation with an old sea captain who had visited or voyaged to all quarters of the globe, he was denouncing fiercely the degeneracy of these costermonger times. He said there was a book in our town library which was a tissue of falsehood from beginning to end, and that there never existed such a man as Gordon Cumming, the Lion Hunter. I told the old gentleman that I had seen the Lion Hunter hundreds of times and conversed with him in the woods of Aylter, and that be was a descendant of the Royal Comyn, one of whom was killed by King Robert the Bruce, and that I had seen the magnificent person of Gordon Cumming in the garb of old Gaul, successfully punish a huge prize fighter who kept grossly insulting him during the excitement of a general election⁠—when Cumming’s uncle, Major Cumming Bruce, was running for member, this Major being father-in-law to Lord Elgin, formerly Governor of Canada. I also told him that Hugh Millar was a warm friend of the Lion Hunter’s mother, as she was distinguished both as a geologist and a botanist, and that Livingstone, the great traveller, was a great admirer and intimate friend of the Hunter. After his return to Britain he exhibited himself and his magnificent trophies throughout all the cities and towns of Britain and Ireland. His own noble figure in full Highland costume was perhaps no insignificant part of the exhibition. Barnum afterwards secured the noble specimens of hides and horns and monstrous tusks for his New York museum.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-23" id="noteref-23" epub:type="noteref">23</a></p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Now the youth in fertile Moray</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do in Gordon Cumming glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bold lion hunter-first who made</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Africa tribes successful trade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>First in those wilds to fire a gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While he the mighty trophies won.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="book-agent-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Book Agent Story</h2>
				<p>An American Yarn ground into rhyme in our Poetical Mill.</p>
				<p>As we have given several humorous Scottish stories in verse we will venture to trespass on your good nature by giving an American specimen. The scene is laid in the suburbs of New York. It was a prose tale, and we fancy we have not diminished the height, breadth or depth of the humour by grinding it in our poetical mill and having it flow out in rhyme.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>There is a man, his name is Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He lives in a suburban town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And has an office in the city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His misfortunes you will pity.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mind it was on stocks and change,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He cared not for things new or strange;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But agent managed him to hook</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sold to him a costly book.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brown cared not for those glorious names⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Died for religion in the flames;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now he felt agent was a Tartar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For selling him a book of martyr.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The agent knew it would make strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sold another to his wife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She did not know that Brown had bought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And agent on her easy wrought.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Approaching her with winning smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He poor woman did beguile.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He made her believe without a doubt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No Christian could do without</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This book, which would all inspire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With spark of celestial fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With feelings like the first martyr</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who had died for Christian charter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Brown did home return at night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His wife, to add to his delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved that she would, after tea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Get chatting with her husband free</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tell him of fine book she bought;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of trouble fresh she never thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she noticed a gloomy frown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the brow of her husband Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thought when I my purchase tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those dark clouds they will dispel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She said, my dear, I bought martyr,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looked as if he her could quarter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And said the scoundrel sold me book;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of the window then he did look</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saw the agent haste to train;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tried to stop him, but in vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smith then was passing in spring wagon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he had his trotting nag on;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He told him to stop book agent;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His escape for to prevent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smith told him Brown wanted him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But agent-nothing daunted him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said he: He only wants to barter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With me for my book of Martyr.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If thats all, said Smith, with quick dash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Give me his book, and here’s your cash;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Book agent jumped aboard the car,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he knew there would be war;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Smith met Brown with triumphant look,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said he: I have got you the book;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brown’s feelings now no one could paint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He there did show he was no saint;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to big own home he now returned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fierce rage in his bosom burned;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was not fit for Knight of Garter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he brought in the third martyr.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From roots of prose of various climes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each tale thus grows all clad in rhymes.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="harvest-home-festival" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Harvest Home Festivals</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead"><abbr>Sept.</abbr>, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>In summer time it doth seem good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To seek the shade of the green wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it doth banish all our care</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we gaze on scene so fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And birds do here in branches sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So merrily in early spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lovingly they here do pair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their mutual joys together share.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here nature’s charming, never rude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inspiring all with happy mood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tables had choice fruits of season,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we too had feast of reason.</span>
			</p>
			<section id="episcopal-harvest-home">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Episcopal Harvest Home</h3>
				<p>
					<span>To dinner table all did march</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Through evergreen triumphal arch,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On top the Union Jack it floats,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>On each side sheaves of wheat and oats.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Great pumpkins and big ears of corn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>They do this rural arch adorn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>We are reminded now ’tis fall,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And boys enjoy game of baseball.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>With joy at night each one did gaze</span>
					<br/>
					<span>At the mighty bonfire’s blaze,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The tree leaves shone like silver bright,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The lanterns too were pleasing sight.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="father-ranney-the-cheese-pioneer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Father Ranney, the Cheese Pioneer</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">This is our earliest cheese ode. The Ingersoll factory has been removed to Thamesford.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When Father Ranney left the States,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canada to try the fates,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He settled down in Dereham,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then no dairyman lived near him;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was the first there to squeeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His cows’ milk into good cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at each Provincial show</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His famed cheese was all the go.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Then long life to Father Ranney</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May he wealth and honour gain aye.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>He always took the first prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both for quality and size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But many of his neighbors</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now profit by his labors,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ladies dress in silk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the proceeds of the milk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But those who buy their butter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How dear it is, they mutter.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">Then long life to Father Ranney,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">May he his health retain aye.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>The farmers can not be beat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They have both cheese and their wheat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though now their greatest care is</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to watch o’er their dairies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They carefully fill their mows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With provender for their cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they thus enrich the soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With much profit for their toil.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">We will sing this refrain aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Long life to Father Ranney.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>The motto “union is strength”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is carried out at length,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the most compact array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At every cheese factory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ll see without going far as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is one kept by Harris,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The factory of Ingersoll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just out at the first toll.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">May he never suffer pain aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The Father of cheesemen Ranney.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>Or you may go all the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see one kept by Galloway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And out in the Norwiches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dairymen are making riches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And honor has been won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By Harvey Farrington,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The same path is trodden</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By folks about Culloden.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">May his strength never wane aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">The great dairyman Ranney.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>And of late we saw some</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Very good cheese from Lawson,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All around <abbr>Mt.</abbr> Elgin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dairymen have well done,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And out in East Nissouri</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They make some scores a day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Jarvis and Elliott</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some good cheese are bought.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">And we will all remain aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">Indebted to Father Ranney.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
			<p>
				<span>Now we close this glorious theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This song of curds and rich cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You can buy your hoops and screws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all supplies for dairy use,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Milk cans and vats, all things like these,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Ingersoll great mart for cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here buyers all do congregate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pay for cheese the highest rate.</span>
			</p>
			<div>
				<header>
					<p>Chorus</p>
				</header>
				<p>
					<span class="i1">So we call on you again aye,</span>
					<br/>
					<span class="i1">To honor Father Ranney.</span>
				</p>
			</div>
		</article>
		<article id="hints-to-cheese-makers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hints to Cheese Makers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>All those who quality do prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Must study color, taste and size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And keep their dishes clean and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all things round their factories neat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For dairymen insist that these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are all important points in cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Grant has here a famous work</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Devoted to the cure of pork,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For dairymen find it doth pay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fatten pigs upon the whey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there is money raising grease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As well as in the making cheese.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ode-on-the-mammoth-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Ode on the Mammoth Cheese</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Weighing over 7,000 pounds.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We have seen thee, queen of cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lying quietly at your ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gently fanned by evening breeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thy fair form no flies dare seize.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All gaily dressed soon you’ll go</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the great Provincial show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be admired by many a beau</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the city of Toronto.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cows numerous as a swarm of bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or as the leaves upon the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It did require to make thee please,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stand unrivalled, queen of cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>May you not receive a scar as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have heard that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harris</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Intends to send you off as far as</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great world’s show at Paris.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of the youth beware of these,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For some of them might rudely squeeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bite your cheek, then songs or glees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We could not sing, oh! queen of cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We’rt thou suspended from balloon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’d cast a shade even at noon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Folks would think it was the moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About to fall and crush them soon.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mcintyre-has-a-few-rows" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">McIntyre Has a Few Rows</h2>
			<p>
				<span>McIntyre has a few rows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the latest styles of Bureaus.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-thames" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Thames</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Old Version</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The allusion to Woodstock in the following was a good description of the Town about the year 1860. It was then a long narrow Town with a great deal more length than breadth, but it is now one of the finest Towns of the Province, and to its many fine structures soon will be added a magnificent Court House, worthy of the County of Oxford. The eyes of the whole world were directed towards the Town where Birchall was confined, tried and executed in the year 1890, for the murder of young Benwell, to which event we refer further on.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We love to sing of classic names⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Even if we choose a borrowed plume⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our theme, the Valley of the Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where man may yet find ample room.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is not of old England’s river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Covered o’er with many a mast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But where Cabot did discover</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The land of lakes and forests vast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Although we have historic claims,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet them we now do lay aside;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We pass the battle of the Thames,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-24" id="noteref-24" epub:type="noteref">24</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where foreign foe did fiercely ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We do not sing the graceful dames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No more than the fierce battle’s shock;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We merely trace old English names,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Beginning first with the Woodstock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>England’s Woodstock had a palace</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">None was raised up grander, stronger;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Canadian Woodstock without malice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">We may say your streets by far the longer.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-25" id="noteref-25" epub:type="noteref">25</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Yet you are Oxford’s County Town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And can boast a fine new college,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which with old age may some day frown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Like Old England’s seat of knowledge</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The next in order we enroll</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is Westminster and Middlesex,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With London for it capitol⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">These names a Cockney do perplex.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each familiar name doth greet thee!</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Its bridges, markets, and its halls;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All things in the Forest City</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Bears English names, even to <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> Pauls’.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The next in order we do trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Is Chatham⁠—once a famed resort⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there the bloodhound dared not chase,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor tear good colored men from sport.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now our verse draws to a close,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Because beyond the County Kent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Thames by name no longer flows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But in the lake it finds a vent.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-people-all-say-and-declare-it-is-true" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The People All Say and Declare It Is True</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The people all say and declare it is true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The best furniture is made of McIntyre’s glue.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-gunn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Gunn</h2>
				<p>Lines on receiving an announcement by card that <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Gunn had assumed the control of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Courier</i>.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>My dear friend Gunn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May you prize won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to us hark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you shoot mark,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>High you must aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at right game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And truth employ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wrong to destroy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your friend the Bard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hopes your reward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be furriore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Courier</i>.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="indian-mutiny" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Indian Mutiny</h2>
			<p>
				<span>British infants who were nobly born</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were from their bleeding mother’s bosom torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with the bayonet dashed upon the street</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There left to lie for native dogs to eat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the British Lion he quick o’erthrew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both the high and the low Hindu,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now they respect the Christian laws</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fear of British Lion’s paws.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-modern-wonder" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">A Modern Wonder</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Campbell’s Block</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Owing to the peculiar slant in our front glass the strange optical illusion described below was witnessed until the window was curtained:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>You may look but look in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For stores with such immense pane;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All other shops they do surpass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their enormous lights of glass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One night by chance through them we gazed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we did quickly stand amazed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three moons they did beauteous glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gleams so lovely they did throw.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But a still more wond’rous story:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mid day showed three suns in glory;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the sight we scarce could gaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of brilliancy the rays.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We had to curtain off the glory;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you don’t believe this wond’rous story</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ask Editor of the <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Tribune</i></span>
				<br/>
				<span>About this tale of sun and moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which did bewilder McIntyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gazing on mighty orbs of fire;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eclipsing the electric light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So brilliant in their glorious might.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Luminaries no more invade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Excluded now by window shade;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pray think that this is no intrusion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This tale of optical illusion.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="electric-light" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Electric Light</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Suggested by the brilliant display at Toronto, September, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When the great Bulwer’s pen did trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The history of the coming race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His hero to us he hath unfurled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glories of his new found world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This bold traveller be did venture</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far below our world’s centre;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He entered through an ancient mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to us doth new world define.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once all was discord and fierce jars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Continuous engaged in wars</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till they discovered great vrill power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then wars did cease from that same hour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mighty bolts from it were hurled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would soon have laid waste the world;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So for world’s preservation</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At once they stopped desolation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All wars by them are now despised</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unfit for nation civilized;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their peaceful glories they do sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fly on artificial wing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Great blazing artificial light</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It ever burns both day and night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they have neither sun nor moon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But radiant, always ’tis high noon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When we beheld the glorious sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High in the air did shine so bright;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed that it could banish night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great refulgent electric light.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But after all, ’tis children’s play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Compared with the great orb of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or when the moon it doth shine bright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stars do beautify the night.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="witch-stone" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Witch Stone</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At Forres is a large round stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A relic of the days by gone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For here there were two witches burned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Underneath their ashes urned.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A man with veneration small</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broke stone and built it in his wall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the authorities of town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made him full quickly pull them down.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Replace each piece, and it environ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With large bars of good Scottish iron;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May fine old town thrive and adorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beauteous banks of the Findhorn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dick-and-edward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dick and Edward</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Thurso baker Robert Dick<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-26" id="noteref-26" epub:type="noteref">26</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Armed with his hammer and his pick,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dame nature’s secrets did reveal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which she for ages did conceal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In Banff has genius found regard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the person of an Edward,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-27" id="noteref-27" epub:type="noteref">27</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who now does rank among the first</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the world as naturalist.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="questions-and-answers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Questions and Answers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Are you a mason? No; I prefer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To work at the trade of carpenter.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are you then an Oddfellow?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No; I married Annabella.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Are you a Son of Temperance?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No; I am son of Joseph Vance.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are you then a Forrester?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No; town life I prefer.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-read-at-a-ladies-aid" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Read at a Ladies’ Aid</h2>
			<p>
				<span>After chatting with each friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We our way to the table wend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On it we all do make a raid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this we call a ladies’ aid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis pleasant way of taking tea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Improvement on the old soirée,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On such a time as this I find</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Food for body and for mind.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Gladly all obey the call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To attend this pleasant social,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we hope none will lament</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The time and money they have spent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The matron and the comely maid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And youths attend the Ladies’ Aid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now we close our short refrain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hope to meet you all again.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="salford-parsonage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Salford Parsonage</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Lines delivered at housewarming of Salford Parsonage.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Your pastor’s fame first got abroad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By his success on Culloden Road;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He filled the church so that the fold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No longer it the flock would hold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon a larger church did rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fine neat tower points to the skies;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When you o’erwhelmed with ruin dire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did lose your parsonage by fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To his call with generous bounty</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You built best parsonage in county,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But some good people in the town</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At this idea they might frown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unless we made this correction:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The best in a rural section;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your pastor he doth vigorous push,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He’s not afraid to enter bush.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And ’tis a fact there’s very few</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With him can stick of timber hew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ready for to superintend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or a helping hand to lend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When bold man’s wanted at the front,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve but to call on Reverend Hunt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In pulpit he conviction darts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And points the way to troubled hearts.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But solemn thoughts we won’t employ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As this is all a scene of joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Maids and matrons all charming</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do grace this pleasant housewarming.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here people come from near and far</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To purchase goods at this bazar;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all is happiness and glee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At festival of this soirée.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="transformation-scene" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Transformation Scene</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">A plain building was removed to a pleasant grove, and in a few weeks it was transformed into the neatest frame building in town.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>As westward we of late did rove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We beheld in the maple grove</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An old church now owned by Peter;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In town there is no house looks neater,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For those bay windows do look sweeter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than anything in prose or meter.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-london" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on London</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Uniformed Encampment victorious at <abbr>St.</abbr> Thomas and at the great Forester’s demonstration in London, August, 1884.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>They once in wilderness did ride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On beast with horn and shaggy hide⁠—</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A savage goat or unicorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now parade in uniform;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As gay as ancient Knight or Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their grand plumes, and belt and swords.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their graceful movements at their drill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth all with admiration fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the chief glory it was won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the encampment of London;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they at every tournament</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For drill are the chief ornament.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So skillfully they sword do wield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victorious on every field;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For victory’s graven on their shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth make their rivals for to yield;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drill companies they out manoeuvre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Newfoundland to Vancouver.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="finale" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Finale</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is folly now to aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or to seek for distant fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But rest content if we can claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something of a local name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oh the pleasant banks of Thame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because in simple strains we sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glories of this country young.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canada-before-the-confederation-of-the-provinces" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canada Before the Confederation of the Provinces</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Canadian provinces they lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Divided by river and by bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many a separate division,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among them there was no cohesion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But statesmen saw that a great nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Could be formed by federation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon they led public opinion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To favor forming this Dominion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Northwest with its streams and fountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With sources in the Rocky Mountains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was all a great mystery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunting for furs its history.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though Northwest is filling slow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet soon there will be mighty flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Millions to Northwest will hurry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In last decade of century.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For therein is an opening grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In great fertile prairie land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there the choicest wheat it grows</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near where the Saskatchewan flows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And on many a river’s branch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is found great grazing ranch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Favoured districts therein abound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cattle graze all the year round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Protected from the stormy blast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the Rocky Mountains vast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through canon blows no storm terrific,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But balmy breezes from Pacific.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadas-future" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canada’s Future</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Canada is a young giant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Has not yet acquired its strength,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the arts of peace reliant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Throughout its vast breadth and length.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though ’tis not famed for orange bowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Nor for the products of its vines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though other lands have fairer flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Yet it to nobler gifts inclines.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It doth produce the golden grain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And few lands can with it compete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They often try but all in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To produce such splendid wheat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our geologists divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">That ere long we will behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many a rich glittering mine</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of copper, silver and of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we sing more glorious theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It is our verdant pasture land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cows produce a flood of cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doth make cheese of the finest brand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And great thoughts oftentimes awakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When we reflect on this wondrous land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With vast rivers and mighty lakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All nature here’s on scale so grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young Dominion so gigantic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where rail cars run at speed terrific,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thousands of miles from the Atlantic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Till in the West you reach Pacific.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From balmy breezes of lake Erie</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To the far north frozen ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where it now seems lone and dreary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All will yet be life and motion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though nation’s young its powerful fleet</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doth sail on many a distant sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For world’s commerce to compete</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her sails in all climes flowing free.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadas-resources" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canada’s Resources</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Small Scotland nobly held its own</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the might of England’s throne,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And shall this land with its vast bounds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shrink with fear ere the trumpet sounds.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While British blood doth course each vein,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proudly this heritage maintain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fertile acres by the billions,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Future homes for two hundred millions.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each son could have a fertile farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brave men who ne’er will feel alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they have both the nerve and skill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To work land with a right good will.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she has got within her shores</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Renowned mines of many ores,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While her furnaces and forges</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Iron in useful shape disgorges.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her mighty forests they do yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lumber, her cities for to build,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But her wealth is not in these alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She has great quarries too of stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Industry it here doth bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And skilful webs come from each loom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of great nations under sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mightier race it yet will run.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For with the Anglo-Saxon race</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No other people can keep pace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here they have room for to expand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a nation mighty grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With great railroads and canals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And care in legislative halls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A mighty future she will gain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And highest rank she will obtain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Canada hopes it will be told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she hath patriots brave and bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To guide her helm shall be extolled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As loving country more than gold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="northwest-rebellion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Northwest Rebellion</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1885.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Hail Canada our young fair land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The world’s respect it doth command;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How quick her sons at war’s alarms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sprang to her rescue with their arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In Canada the English rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The shamrock and the thistle grows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>United garland they combine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around the maple tree to twine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They did march a brave gallant host</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the far East Atlantic coast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our Canada so proud and free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Four thousand miles from sea to sea.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though skilful rebels did entrench,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But their deadly fires our boys did quench,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And victory it soon was won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By our General Middleton.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Colonel Williams left a name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Canada’s temple of fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A kind and a brave hearted man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hour of danger led the van.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The ninetieth regiment it fought well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Winnipeg doth its glories tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>London boasts of her volunteers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she prides in her Fusiliers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Toronto troops have gained renown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And triumph their quick march did crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the relief of Battleford,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scattering of the Indian horde.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our volunteers took up their arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each left his home and all its charms;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though many they were tender reared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No frost nor snow nor foe they feared.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas that youth so true and brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So many now do fill a grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And others they are maimed for life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While engaged in glorious strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We have sprung from a good brave stock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rose, thistle and the shamrock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who all in unity agree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Neath the shade of the maple tree.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Indians soon came to grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under their great Poundmaker chief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Toronto troops gained fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Otter glory to his name.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We all felt proud of our gunboat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the brave crew of the Northcote,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of our scouts who captured Riel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who in vain for mercy did appeal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And may all quickly come to grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who do not love the maple leaf,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they spring from a noble tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shades this land of the brave and free.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="big-bear-the-indian-chief" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Big Bear the Indian Chief</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following impromptu was given at a banquet to one of the captives of Fort Pit after he had related his experience.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Sad memories it doth awake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The death of those fell at Frog Lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And trials of captives of Fort Pit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When savages did capture it.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon Generals Strange and Steel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made savage hordes their power to feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they rescued women fair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the paws of the Big Bear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Captives for days had naught to eat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But steaks of tough and lean dog meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In daily danger of their lives</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From bullets and from scalping knives.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When building big lodge for war dance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cry is heard, the troops advance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the white captives sounds so sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But savages they quick retreat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A thrilling tale our guest<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-28" id="noteref-28" epub:type="noteref">28</a> did tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That close to him fell bursting shell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This shot it was not fired in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For several savages were slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our bold troops great danger braved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that white captives might be saved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who suffered hunger, cold and damp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong savage hordes in bush and swamp.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Big Bear now they have pared his claws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He must atone for broken laws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far away from his native lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In prison strong they put Big Bear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="province-of-ontario" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Province of Ontario</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the land of woods and lakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pure happiness each one partakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who is sound in body and in mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to industry is inclined.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here in great lakes we do take pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And them with Uncle Sam divide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Other lakes seem inferior</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In size to great Superior.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Canadians do take pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Huron’s wide expanded tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it onward flows forever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair lake and river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon again it doth expand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into Erie’s lake so grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then behold its wondrous charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When embraced in Niagara’s arms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then it more blessings doth bestow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On pure bosom of Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round it our towns and cities cluster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er it Toronto sheds her lustre.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Ontario doth awake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thought that ’tis our favorite lake;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Several states approach Lake Erie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each one claiming it for dearie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But our fires of love do glow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Alone for Lake Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our love for it is so unbounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We have almost it surrounded.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the lands around its beaches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are famed for grapes and peaches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong choicest fruits you ramble on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From Niagara to Hamilton.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ontario North is land of pines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A land of lakes and rocks and mines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And beneath dark pine tree shade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How happy is the youth and maid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For here in summer you keep cool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fish for trout in sparkling pool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For pike or salmon you can spear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the season hunt the deer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In great northern hunting ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where both fish and game abound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And verdant pastures here are seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cattle graze ’mong sweetest green.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the far north a land of pines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the south we have the vines,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each year adds into the charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surrounds the homesteads on the farms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Nature our province doth endow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With hardy sons to guide the plow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In south we have the fruitful soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where nature’s bounties on us smile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We have got rich plains and highlands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ontario hath thousand islands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there is a great array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of charming isles on Georgian Bay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And travellers all they do adore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lovely isles near Huron’s shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Superior makes a grand display,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All round her shores to Thunder Bay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Muskoka’s famed for woods and brakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For rocks and meadows and clear lakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sportsmen for it proudly claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That ’tis a land for fish and game.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>There doth arise a sweet aroma</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From great spruce forests of Algoma,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from the poplar, birch and pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There too is wealth in many a mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It may be that of mines the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be found in Ontario West,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stretching towards the interior,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three hundred miles west of Superior.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Essex is our sunny south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the Detroit river’s mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There the sun doth cheerful smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the grape vineyards of Pelee Isle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pioneer’s axe it now doth ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the shores of Nipissing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some do locate claims away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To distant north around James’ Bay.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="niagara-dry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Niagara Dry</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It happened once in early spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">While there did float great thick ice cakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That then a gale did quickly bring</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Them all down from the upper lakes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from Buffalo to Lake Erie,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the entrance to river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was a scene of icebergs dreary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Those who saw will remember ever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then gale blew up lake and river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And left Niagara almost dry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This a lady did discover</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As above the Falls she cast her eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Such scene it had been witnessed never,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Since Israelites crossed the Red Sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they had resolved forever</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">From Pharaoh’s bondage to flee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lady she resolved to venture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Proudly carrying British flag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Erecting it in river’s centre</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In crevice of a rocky crag.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seems like a romance by Bulwer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How she captured Niagara,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it was seen by Bishop Fuller,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who did at sight of flag hurrah.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ten thousand years may die away</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before another dry can tread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In bottom of Niagara,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For she doth jealous guard her bed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ice her entrance did blockade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And wind it kept the waters back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that a child could almost wade</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Across the brink of cataract.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="united-by-steel-rails" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">United by Steel Rails</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Indian tribes in the Northwest</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Rebelled against the Eastern laws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Canadian courage it did test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All were united in the cause.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But how shall volunteers proceed</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Such distance, several thousand miles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will they in their dark hour of need</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Ask Uncle Sam with pleasant smiles</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For to allow our volunteers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To pass o’er their north railroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps subject to doubts and fears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where British soldiers never trod.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But there went up a glad hurrah</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When it was found that in our land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Almost finished was railway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And trains do wait for word command,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To bear away our volunteers</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To those far North distant lands,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But dispelled were all their fears</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When they rode over those steel bands,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which bound young nation all in one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Before detached and all apart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shoulder to shoulder now each one</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Feels patriot feelings in his heart,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First time we truly realize</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The value of this great railway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its benefits each now doth prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Highway to Japan and Australia.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The policy it has proved wise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Which did build this great railway,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The vast Northwest to colonize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And bear its products far away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Canadian flags are now unfurled</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">In the ports of the Chinese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Short route to Oriental world</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Gives Canada her cheap fine teas.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-old-snake-fence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Old Snake Fence</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In early times the pioneer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a few acres he did clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He found an ample recompense</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For splitting rails and making fence.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though it was crooked as a snake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And zigzag style did not awake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought it was a thing of beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet in its day it did its duty.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though the old snake fence must fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas easy made, axe, wedge and maul,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were all the tools the pioneer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bequired the old rail fence to rear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the old pioneer could boast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of fence that did not need a post,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To build it now is waste of timber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fertile lands it doth cumber.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And pine stump fence with its sharp roots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will long endure and ward off brutes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the crops they ample shield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And do protect each separate field.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But old style fence doth waste much land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where weeds do grow and bush expand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thistle down doth blow from thence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So folks build wire and the board fence.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-voyageurs-on-the-nile" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Voyageurs on the Nile</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The British soldiers on the Nile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gratitude did kindly smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the Canadian voyageurs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who skilfully did ply their oars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they invoked their benison</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On boatsmen led by Denison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Neither the rapids nor the falls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the Nile these braves appals.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For in such toils they did partake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On each native stream and lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thoughts of their homes in visions throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While singing Canadian boat song.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they all hoped again to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glorious land of maple tree,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From their memories they never</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgot the land of lake and river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While up the Nile they do advance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They dream about their own <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Manitoba’s streams and lakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pleasant reflections oft awakes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus each day they cheerful toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ascending of old Father Nile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose waters fertilize the soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And is the home of crocodile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wolseley he had exhibition</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Red River expedition,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How these voyageurs could steer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or with the axe a roadway clear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Those who speak the tongue of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the banks of the <abbr>St.</abbr> Lawrence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At call to arms quick advance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rifle, bayonet and lance.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="land-clearing" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Land Clearing</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The first winter which I did spend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Canada was with a friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the snow had passed away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quite early in the month of May.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Friend started off for a barn raising,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And told me to get stumps ablazing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around each stump I heaped a pile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of roots and junks of wood so vile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For he wished the field to clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So it a crop of wheat would rear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there was one high withered pine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which was full of turpentine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As soon as I applied the torch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blaze quick did start and it did scorch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fences, and the woods were nigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the old tree it blazed on high.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I was the only man or boy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near there that day and found employ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In saving of the house and barn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus early fire fiend did me warn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fire started and with it a breeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carried the sparks ’mong leaves of trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I did work hard but for recompense</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All was saved but a few rails of fence.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Man in spring logging oft awakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From winter slumbers nests of snakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And listens to the music grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bull frogs, our Canadian band.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-read-at-a-maple-sugar-social" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Read at a Maple Sugar Social</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">April, 1888.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Our first Canadian job when boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the big woods we did enjoy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Large maple bush we then did tap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to camp carried maple sap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We stored it in great wooden trough,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then in big kettles sugared off,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though often it did try our mettle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To keep up fire beneath each kettle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For it was a serious toil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cut the wood to kettles boil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night it is a pleasant joke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No trouble from the fire and smoke.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of old we thought our neck was broke</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By having on it a neckyoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on each side a heavy pail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Suspended from the yoke by bail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We waded through the snow and slush</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stumbled o’er the logs in bush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no doubt the maple’s sweeter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than any other thing in meter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unless it is the lips of lass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which maple sugar doth surpass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And may it be each young man’s fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to secure a charming mate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For birds will soon begin to sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seek their mates in early spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When found each pair do feel they’re blest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they have finished their warm nest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let none at sugar making scoff,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Webster was rocked in a sap trough;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When boiling sap it is quite handy</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To pour some in snow to make candy.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-charms" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Charms</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Here industry is not in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For we have bounteous crops of grain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you behold on every field</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of grass and roots abundant yield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But after all the greatest charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is the snug home upon the farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stone walls now keep cattle warm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="patriot-fighting-for-his-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Patriot Fighting for His Home</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On the shores of the northern lakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An infant giant now awakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has long time been in a dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now is roused by engine’s scream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For mighty spirits are abroad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Traversing of each great railroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it is a glorious theme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peaceful conquest made by steam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But should the foot of invader vile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ever desecrate his soil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He firm will meet him bold and brave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give him soil Canadian grave.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fighting-for-conquest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fighting for Conquest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis noble for to fight for home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But some nations fight to plunder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For conquest o’er the world to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To tear peaceful lands asunder.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For to give wealth and a great name</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To some aspiring commander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who wishes to acquire great fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As a modern Alexander.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Statesmen and kings a war will wage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And many thousands strew the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Covered with gore in the carnage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where brave and noble men are slain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Leaving their families to mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Now who can soothe the ills of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To them they never shall return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">No one can now cheer the poor wife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or the sweet little orphans dear</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Think of father and of mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sweetheart, sister and of brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who oft will shed the fruitless tear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-sent-to-thomas-conant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Sent to Thomas Conant of Oshawa, a Writer of Canadian Sketches</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We do greet thee Thomas Conant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You truthful paint Canadian charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you are the great exponent</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of beauties of her woods and farms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You give fine sketch of bird and fowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of the blue jay and the plover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of great white Canadian owl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All proves of nature you’re a lover.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-sent-to-alexander-mclaughlan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Sent to Alexander McLaughlan, Amaranth Station, with a Copy of My Poems</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We send to you these rugged rhymes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In memory of the olden times,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great chief of our poetic clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Admired by all, McLaughlan.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="holland-river-and-its-tributaries" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Holland River and Its Tributaries</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Meanderings of a stream rises twenty miles north of Toronto and sweeps around the whole of Southern Ontario.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We love to sing of tiny stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Through the lowland meadows running,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To us it is a pleasing theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Tracing it from first beginning.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis strange how far a brook will roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Moving onwards in its motion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And not content till it reaches home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Two thousand miles to distant ocean.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In county York springs a small brook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A few miles north of Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it doth take a wondrous crook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It northward many miles doth flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Brook’s progress south is stopped by ridge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Doth debar its southern course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So a long journey it don’t grudge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But slowly on its way doth force.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it discharges at its mouth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Into the pure clear lake Simcoe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It still flows north for to get south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">As onward still its course doth go.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rejoicing along its way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hundreds of miles it doth flow west,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blended in the Georgian Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For a moment it doth not rest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mingling with Huron and <abbr>St.</abbr> Clair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Erie and Niagara river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even at the Falls it don’t despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But it cheerful flows forever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One thousand miles round an ox bow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It hath flowed back near its first start,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To waters of Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where ridge at first kept it apart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From south of ridge two rivers flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Both the Don and the Humber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Embracing city of Toronto,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Hath attractions without number.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The fame will spread far and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">First of Don and then of Humber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Improved rivers like to the Clyde,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With wharves for coal, wood, iron and lumber.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-vale-of-thames" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Vale of Thames</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In vale of Thames oft’ times are seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cattle graze ’mong sweetest green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or there contented with their fate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gentle cows do ruminate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And enjoy a double pleasure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In re-chewing hidden treasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cow is a kindly creature,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kind and pleasant in each feature.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>About her is a homely charm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her the dog should not alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let all safe guard her from harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gentlest creature on the farm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ranney-1856-dairy-system" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ranney, 1856, Dairy System</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Ranney began with just two cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which he in winter fed on browse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now he hath got mighty herds</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Numerous as flock of birds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May he long live our hearts to cheer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This great and useful pioneer.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-read-at-a-dairymens-supper" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Read at a Dairymen’s Supper</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It almost now seems all in vain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to expect high price for grain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wheat is grown on Egyptian soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the banks of mighty Nile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And where the Ganges it doth flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In India fine wheat doth grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And price of labor is so cheap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That it they can successful reap.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then let the farmers justly prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cows for land they fertilize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let us all with songs and glees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Invoke success into the cheese.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="ensilage" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Ensilage</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The farmers now should all adorn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A few fields with sweet southern corn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is luscious, thick and tall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beauty of the fields in fall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For it doth make best ensilage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For those in dairying engage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It makes the milk in streams to flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where dairymen have a good silo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cow is a happy rover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the fields of blooming clover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of it she is a fond lover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it makes milk pails run over.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fertile-lands-and-mammoth-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fertile Lands and Mammoth Cheese</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In barren district you may meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Small fertile spot doth grow fine wheat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There you may find the choicest fruits,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And great, round, smooth and solid roots.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But in conditions such as these</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You cannot make a mammoth cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which will weigh eight thousand pounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But where large fertile farms abounds.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Big cheese is synonymous name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fertile district of the Thame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here dairy system’s understood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are made both large and good.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-read-at-a-dairymaids-social" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Read at a Dairymaids’ Social</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>1887.</p>
					<p>Where the young lady waiters were dressed as dairymaids.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Throughout the world they do extol</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fame of our town Ingersoll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The capital of dairyland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To-night it seems like fairy land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The youth and beauty here arrayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So sweet and neat each dairymaid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And worthy of a poet’s theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet and smooth flows milk and cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For song or glee what is fitter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this land of cheese and butter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no young man should be afraid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To court a pretty dairymaid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And far abroad he should not roam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But find a charmer here at home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Find some one now your heart to cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus celebrate the jubilee year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Remember long this ladies’ aid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each bewitching dairymaid.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="windmills-and-stone-stables" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Windmills and Stone Stables</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Cows suffered in the days of old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For want of water and from cold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now of good water they have fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it is pumped by the windmill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No matter how well cows were fed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They suffered cold in their board shed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But good stone walls now them enfold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are warm and safe from cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now they do enjoy their fodder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And repay with their full udder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If bran slops you on cow bestow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of milk it will increase the flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in your efforts do not halt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let them daily lick the salt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And never let the dogs them chase,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But let them walk at their quiet pace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dairy-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dairy Ode</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The sweet milkmaid of early days</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her own household she ably sways,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her daughters now milk the cows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her sons they now guide the plows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These pleasing changes on a farm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth give to rural life a charm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let occupation none upbraid,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But honor plowman and milkmaid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Burns with glory did endow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wove a garland round the plow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The source from which all wealth doth spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And happiness to all doth bring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our muse it doth refuse to sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cheese made early in the spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When cows give milk from spring fodder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You cannot make a good cheddar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The quality is often vile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cheese that is made in April,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Therefore we think for that reason</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You should make later in the season.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cheese making now you should delay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until about the first of May.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then cows do feed on grassy field</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rich milk they abundant yield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Ontario cannot compete</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the Northwest in raising wheat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For cheaper there they it can grow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So price in future may be low.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though this a hardship it may seem,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoice that you have got the cream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In this land of milk and honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where dairy farmers do make money.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Utensils must be clean and sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So cheese with first class can compete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And daily polish up milk pans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Take pains with vats and with milk cans.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it is important matter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To allow no stagnant water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But water from pure well or stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cow must drink to give pure cream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Canadian breeds ’tis best to pair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With breeds from the shire of Ayr,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They thrive on our Canadian feed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And are for milking splendid breed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though ’gainst spring cheese some do mutter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet spring milk also makes bad butter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then there doth arise the query</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How utilize it in the dairy:</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The milk it floats in great spring flood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it is not so rich and good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let us be thankful for this stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of milk and also curds and cream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All dairymen their highest aims</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Should be to make the vale of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where milk doth so abundant flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dairyland of Ontario.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="cheese-curd-for-bait" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Cheese Curd for Bait</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following adventure was participated in by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">J.</abbr> Podmore and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> <abbr epub:type="z3998:given-name">W. D.</abbr> Grant at Matheson’s Cold Spring Cheese Factory in Zorra, 1888.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Cheese buyers in hours of leisure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Combine business with pleasure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when they wish to go abroad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They take their gun and fishing rod.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This tale is true we pledge our word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They baited hook with a piece of curd,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And let the rod hang from the boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While curd and hook on pond did float.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then they start for sport and fun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To try their luck with the shot gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quick they raised from their cover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then brought low eight brace of plover.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now to the pond they do return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But loss of rod they have to mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They see it rushing through the water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wonder what can be the matter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the courage of young Grant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It did not for a moment daunt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though rod it now is far beyond,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He plunged into deep, cold spring pond.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And seized his rod and then drew out</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A beauteous seven pound trout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which had grown from the seed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From spawn of California breed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Californian in its greed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the sweet curd wished to feed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, alas, for it’s sad fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It swallowed hook along with bait.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="thanksgiving-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Thanksgiving Ode</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">November 15th, 1888.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>September came and with it frost</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The season’s pasture it seemed lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wondrous yield of corn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of its green beauty it was shorn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Frost it came like early robber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But gentle rains came in October,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which were absorbed by grateful soil;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With green once more the pastures smile.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And cows again are happy seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enjoying of the pastures green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And flow of milk again they yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the sweet feed of grassy field.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And we have now a fine November,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warmer far than in September;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The apple, which is queen of fruits,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was a good crop and so is roots.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The rains they did replenish springs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it gratitude to each heart brings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we reflect on bounteous season,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For grateful feelings all have reason.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="when-to-sell-grain-and-farm-produce" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">When to Sell Grain and Farm Produce</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Grain it should be sold in the fall</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even if the price it should be small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For if you keep it till the spring</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sometimes a less price it doth bring.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For grain with whole world doth compete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You cannot raise the price of wheat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then at once you should embark it</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On its way to world’s market.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We hope our views you don’t despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For grain doth shrink in weight and size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you sell wheat you can get gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Retain it, damp may make it mould.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Remember too that of your wheat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rats of it will fondly eat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sell it and money then invest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you can get good interest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The same remarks apply to cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It shrinks and frosts make it to freeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then careful man you have to hire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At great expense to keep up fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If you your produce quick do move,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The business soon it will improve,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then mankind will you bless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For alleviating their distress.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it pays best to sell each pig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Plump and young, not old, fat and big,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young and tender now’s the vogue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Either in cattle or in hog.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="four-acre-farm" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Four Acre Farm</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is a tale, but it is truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of maiden lady named Ruth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She owned a small four acre farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which possessed some rural charm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This maiden she was past her youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But none e’re fell in love with Ruth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though you must not infer from thence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she possessed not grace nor sense.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She was handsome in her day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But beauty quickly fades away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Good vegetables and fine roots</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She growed and choicest kind of fruits.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And a first-class good milch cow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She kept, and a fine breeding sow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her butter high price did command,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cow fed on best of pasture land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On it was pond where swam her geese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From small flock of sheep she sheared fleece,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus she passed year after year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her cares they kept her in good cheer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each year she raised large chicken brood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for them she grew lots of food,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In winter time it was her rule</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To knit and spin up her own wool.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus her uneventful life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth pass without jar or strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis seldom she e’re feels alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But quietly tills her little farm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To plow her little fields of course</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She does require to drive her horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This little pony looks quite smart</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drawing old maid in little cart.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eagle-and-salmon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eagle and Salmon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Wilmot of fish culture fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To this tale he lends his name,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pair of eagles built their nest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a lofty pine tree’s crest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And therein they regular rear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brood of young year after year,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One day he saw one leave its nest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When for food it was in quest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It did wing its flight on high,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then on water cast its eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it quickly did discover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A great salmon in the river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like lightning flash down it doth sweep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its talons it buries deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In salmon of enormous size</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He trys to rise in air with prize.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But all in vain he quickly found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He could not carry thirty pound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And had bit more than he could chew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in the air no more he flew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wilmot he did gaze with wonder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the spot where he went under,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved to know what was the matter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He poled his boat o’er the water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he looked down and there he found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the eagle it was drowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its wings in part outspread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But alas it was quite dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With grappling hook he drew him out,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But attached to him was monster trout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eagle could not extract his claws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this the death of both did cause.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="captains-adventure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Captain’s Adventure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Three years ago my vessel lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a port of Hudson Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I started off for the trading post,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on the way back I then got lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the thought soon gave me the blues,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trudging along on my snow shoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Over the wastes of drifting snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the wind it did fiercely blow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I feared that I would be froze hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it was a fearful blizzard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was growing faint and weary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not the slightest hopes to cheer me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Without compass to bearing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My yells were beyond crews’ hearing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at last to my loud halloo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There came a mournful ho, ho.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From creature white I thought ’twas ghost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that I was forever lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard horrid creature flutter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it those strange sounds did utter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At last I found that all this howl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was from a noble large white owl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a happy apparition,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So runs the Indian tradition.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It guides the lost one in distress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leads him out of wilderness,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This strange bird I soon follow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it still kept up its halloo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seem’d that it cried to cheer me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought the ship was now near me,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As I walked o’er the banks of snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I kept up a feeble halloo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And but a little ways beyond</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From my own crew I got respond,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy I was received by crew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So happy all at my rescue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It must be that some gentle soul</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did then inhabit that strange fowl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But O to me ’twas wondrous fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it thus saved me from despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The man’s my foe who now doth growl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the strange sounds made by the owl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sailors all they took delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feed this bird so pure and white.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon the poor bird was o’erfed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Early one morn we found it dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my breast it heaved with sighs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the tears poured from mine eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But precious relic in glass case</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I oft gaze on its kindly face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grateful memories it brings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I behold its glorious wings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To stuff such birds I knew the art</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On it I worked with my whole heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To preserve each grace and feature</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full of charms to me is creature.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="indian-romance" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Indian Romance</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We know a hill is smooth and round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where Indian relics may be found,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This hill it hath a history,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though enveloped in mystery.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All the youth do fondly glory</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to read an Indian story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This hill was ancient camping ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In creek near by did trout abound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from hill top they caught a gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the river’s broader stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They came in their birch bark canoes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into this place of rendezvous.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When States did Canada invade,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Indian host was here arrayed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here they rallied from near and far,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In eighteen hundred and twelve war.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Chief big Wolfe led them on to war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bade farewell to morning star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He wedded her one year before,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her he fondly did adore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To him she never seemed so sweet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her dress had beads worked o’er so neat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her toilet to complete,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grand moccasins upon her feet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tribe marches and they boldly fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Longside of Brock on Queenstown height,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With glory they do return crowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into the hill so smooth and round.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here big Wolfe drank much fire water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it led to his own slaughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His death alas did blast and mar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dimmed the light of morning star.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="origin-of-the-toboggan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Origin of the Toboggan</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I am a hunter by profession,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when I make this confession,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of what I saw with mine own eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It may cause you some surprise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But we at once now you do warn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That this is not a made up yarn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It happened in the interior,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far north of Lake Superior.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When up the hill setting my traps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I heard on trees peculiar raps,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It made me then attentive hark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then I heard pulling off the bark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It was a bright and pleasant day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The distance was three miles away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it caused me but slight alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they around bark placed each arm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And threw the bark o’er their shoulder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I being a distant beholder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knew not what end they had in view,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I must own my wonder grew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When I saw those men were warm dressed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With good fur robe each one was blessed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In single file they marched up hill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With strangest thoughts my mind did fill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When each man in his robe began</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With tough bark to make toboggan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quick as lightning down they slide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed to me a dangerous ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The spot was covered o’er with hairs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it seem’d mixed with blood of bears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And my two dogs Bull and Daisy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At sight and scent of it went crazy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Could none of these been a true man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or was I gross deceived by bruin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was a long and glassy slide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reached far up the mountain side.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They had been first enjoying the fun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sliding down on their bare skin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until their hide was getting worn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their flesh was somewhat torn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So Bear invented Toboggan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which is a blessing to young man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the fair maiden by his side,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For both enjoy the pleasant ride.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bear-and-falls" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bear and Falls</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Strange incidents do happen ever</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the famed Niagara river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This thought to mind it now recalls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Event three miles above the falls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thrilling ventures there abound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bear which weighed eight hundred pounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunters they do him discover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he was swimming down the river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They felt he would be glorious prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This grand fat bear of mighty size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three men they jump’d into canoe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A skilful and determined crew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Soon alongside of him they row,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But kindly feelings he doth show,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quick he scrambled o’er the boat side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to enjoy a good boat ride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And as o’er the side he straddles</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They hit him on head with paddles,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all in vain, so two of crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A short time bade the bear adieu.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And soon they swiftly swam to shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But current down the river bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Man, bear and boat, the sound appals</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of roaring mighty water falls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But vigorous now he plys the oar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In hopes to safely reach the shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this made bear to grin and growl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wear on brow a horrid scowl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So poor man sore against his will</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Finds that in boat he must keep still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or else be hugged to death by bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While sound of falls becomes more near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But his two friends so brave and true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Row quick ’longside in a canoe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fire in bruin leaden balls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus saving friend from bear and falls.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="broken-raft-adventure" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Broken Raft Adventure</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A man on Nova Scotian Bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On broken raft was borne away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Right out on the open sea</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the storm did blow so free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No shelter from the wind or wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought the gulf would be his grave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had no food life to sustain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He laid him down there to remain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What happened he did know no more,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But old man on Prince Edward’s shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw raft drifting near his shed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought the poor man was quite dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He called for help and soon they bore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His lifeless body to the shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But old man he did them desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To place the body near the fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And wrap it up in blankets warm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which did act like to a charm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon the breath it did return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gratitude his heart did burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To think he was again restored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto his friends whom he adored.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bear-hunt" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bear Hunt</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Two youths came over from York state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bill Brown and Tom Dawes his mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For many months they were wishing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sport of hunting and of fishing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They rowed along the lake in punt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When tired of fishing they would hunt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At river’s mouth they caught fine trout,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In woods close by they saw bear’s snout.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In front of her play little chubs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fat and slick her darling cubs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kind thoughts in their breasts they smother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cruelly they shoot the mother.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bullet fearful tore her jaws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A bloody wound, but with her paws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Erect in air an awful sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was prepared for her young to fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But this did not daunt bold Bill Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With club he tried to knock her down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But she gave him an awful hug,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With paws she at him fierce did tug.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He would been smothered but for Dawes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who rescued him from her great paws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With club he knocked her on the crown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus he saved the life of Brown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She rose again with savage frown</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quickly broke two ribs for Brown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His clothes were all torn with her claws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She smeared with blood both Brown and Dawes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Dawes now quick doth end the strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By stabbing her with hunting knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now around this hunter bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His bear skin coat keeps out the cold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="coon-hunting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Coon Hunting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Canadians oft by light of moon</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Love to go a hunting coon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this our tale it is no yarn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While chopping down tree Henry Karn</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Found therein a hollow chamber</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full of coons who there did clamber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It made them a home superior,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warm and snug in the interior.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he did count therein eleven</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who long had found it a safe haven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it is sad to read their fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For out of them he slaughtered eight.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But trouble to him now occurs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What shall he do with those fine furs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall he grand overcoat display</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or make them into robe for sleigh.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sailors-yarn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sailor’s Yarn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>While voyaging on northern seas</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For days we could not catch a breeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But were held fast as if in vice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surrounded by the bergs of ice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We could not move the ship or boat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on low, flat iceberg we did float;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of provisions we took good store</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With big oars we rowed the berg to shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pride and joy each one feels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we had caught ten thousand seals,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And our brave boys each one they dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To boldly capture great white bear;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On floating berg we built with boards</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A storehouse for to hold our hordes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We had a stove and stock of coal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So we enjoyed this voyage droll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In centre of berg we dug a hole</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And erected a strong pole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The frost and ice soon held it fast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And well it served us for a mast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On which we stretched out our sails</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And scud along before the gales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until we came to an island</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on its sides it seemed highland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Britain being queen of seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For her this island we did seize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give her new coaling station</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to benefit the nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So when we had sailed landward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We erected British standard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the highest mountain top,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which graceful down to sea did slope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We cast our anchor in its side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So to explore it far and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But what was our astonishment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without the least admonishment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our island soon away did float</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if it was a mighty boat.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can you believe this wondrous tale?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It proved to be a monster whale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the ocean quick it flew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With our great iceberg and our crew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until it came to Newfoundland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where all did safe on the ground land;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor whale was stranded on the beach</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his sea home no more could reach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our crew in great wealth each on shares,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By selling whale and seals and bears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hired steam tug to reach our ship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now free from ice we had quick trip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she being loaded down with seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we all shared in common weal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For joy each of us had reason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Making two trips in one season.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="hunters-and-trappers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Hunters and Trappers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Two hunters near to Hudson Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their names John Grant and Tom McKay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their skill and courage naught could daunt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boldest one perhaps was Grant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The winter was their busy time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all was snow and frost and rime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It paid best then to pull trigger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then furs were better thicker.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While setting trap Grant cut through boot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quick the blood gushed from his foot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The horrid scene, now who can paint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For loss of blood soon makes him faint.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But his kind partner Tom McKay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rush of blood he tried to stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when its flow did somewhat slack</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He carried him upon his back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As homeward he doth slowly go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A track of blood is o’er the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But long and weary is the way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon exhausted is McKay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He feels assistance he doth want,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to rescue his dear friend Grant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He stood him up against a tree</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the blood yet flowed quite free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now wolves had visited the trap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And blood from snow they eager lap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then tracked poor Grant, for on the snow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The blood in heavy drops did flow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He soon got help, then John McKay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth hurry back without delay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And what a sight then met their gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Filled them with horror and amaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sight their minds will ever haunt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mangled by wolves was their friend Grant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But round him several wolves were slain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With bullet holes right through their brain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For he had fought hard for his life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some he slew with hunting knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he is still quite surrounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While fierce brutes are badly wounded.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now clubs doth soon dash out their brains</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then they gather Grant’s remains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They cut two saplings both same size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With twigs they lace them acrosswise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So it then made for the poor dead</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A good soft and pliable bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now to his home remains they bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where his poor wife is in despair.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wild-goose-shot-at-midnight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Wild Goose Shot at Midnight</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead"><abbr>Nov.</abbr>, 1888.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>From the regions of the north</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where the waters now are frozen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Towards the south they issue forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">A flock of wild geese of four dozen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when they flew o’er the river Thames</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They swooped down to take a dive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sport with shot gun at them aims</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And one at least did not survive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he now says it tasted fine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And that it was both fat and big,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A hungry man did on it dine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Satisfied with just one leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was sorry fowl to kill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But they awoke him from his slumber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The air with cackle they did fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And thus they lost one of their number.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="adventures-with-bears" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Adventures with Bears</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I bought of land two miles square,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I knew not it contained a bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I never thought there would be any,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But alas, I found many;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bush was thick and mat and tangle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It made it a perfect jungle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But one mile square of good dry land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was enough for me to take in hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swamp I could reach but when frozen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then I saw bears by the dozen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thick as monkies in Africa,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a strange trick I saw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gamboling with the greatest ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High up the trunks of the big trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While some were swinging from branches</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hanging on them with their haunches;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But quietly I then tilled my farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bears at first done me no harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till one night I was roused by dogs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found a bear was at my hogs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He threw a pig across each shoulder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there I was a sad beholder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to the house I quickly run</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to procure my loaded gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as he could not run but slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So heavy laden through the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I him full soon did overtake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his courage quick I did shake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For by the leg my good bold dog</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He bravely caught the thievish rogue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this move made him soon fork o’er</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To me at once the largest porker,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For moment squeeze it did pig stun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But up he rose and quick he run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bear now scared his only hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To let at once the other pig drop,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I shot the bear right through the eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And secured a valued prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s nothing I love so to eat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In winter time as the bear’s meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So a victory I soon won</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sold for high price grease and skin;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bears on honey love to thrive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One morn was wrecked my best beehive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That day I was to sell the honey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to raise some ready money,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bear my views he did despise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And proudly carried off the prize;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That night I set a good spring gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rails I built for him a run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Open all way to hive of bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tried again a hive to seize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all his efforts were in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sprung the gun and he was slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the fact I felt quite funny</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It well repaid me for my honey;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One bear was playing on me joke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carrying off all my young stock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I set my trap, built round it fence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved he ne’er would get from thence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at the first he did me hoax,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he was cunning as a fox,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He dug under and stole my bait,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I next sunk trap and sealed his fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My good iron trap again it caught</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A great bear but it came to naught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Breakfast he had at my expense</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he then showed wondrous sense,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Trap he picked up with greatest ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dashed it to pieces on the trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But blacksmith soon did it repair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I was bound to have that bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I attached to trap a heavy clog,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was like lifting a small log,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I drove in it some sharp iron spikes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which would cut deep each time he strikes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tried again to steal my bait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And break my trap at the old rate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he soon dashed out his own brains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His carcass it brought me great gains;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A neighbour man who would not work</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I thought that he did steal my pork,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at last I found long black hairs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then I knew it was the bears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I put through barrels rods of iron</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they a bear neck would environ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rods together they would snap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I found him choked quite dead in trap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since then my strife with bears did cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now many years I’ve lived in peace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="queens-jubilee-ode" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Queen’s Jubilee Ode</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1887.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Canada proves her devotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To her who rules o’er land and sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For loyal thoughts do hearts inspire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make more glorious empire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis fifty years since Queen was crowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her brow with golden circlet bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was a girl, graceful, fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And has felt joy and anxious care.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Happy years of married life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She enjoyed as Albert’s wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Albert died, the wise and good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she was left in widowhood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In her reign the power of steam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On land and sea became supreme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all now have strong reliance</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fresh victories of science.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For man doth lightning now employ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And uses it for message boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when he wants a brilliant light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Electric orbs do shine most bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Britain’s empire is extending,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Truth and justice ever blending,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May strife and discord ever cease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And jubilee inaugurate peace.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bear-and-whale" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Bear and Whale</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">A fable of the British and Russian dispute of 1885.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Russians suffer sad distress</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For lack of freedom of the press,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But oft’ times they are full able</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To enlighten with a fable.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And they enjoy a humorous tale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of a bear and monster whale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bear he went to the sea shore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty ocean to explore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this it quick enraged the whale</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who beat the ocean with his tail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With foaming words he told the bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he would strip his hide and hair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If he ever found him more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Encroaching on his sea shore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bear replied I will not quail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At frothing words of any whale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For you are a lump of blubber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whale rejoined you are land lubber,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus bandying epithets so vile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of bear grease and of whale oil.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sharks and fishes of the ocean</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were thrown into great commotion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hawks and eagles of the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lions and tigers gathered there.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bear he wished the whale to slaughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he was afraid of water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The great whale feared that he might strand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he ventured on the dry land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So at last great Russia Bear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Went back again to his own lair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And British whale content to be</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Greatest monarch of the sea.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gordon-and-burnaby" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Gordon and Burnaby</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1885.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When the Chinese did rebel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gordon alone he could them quell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With justice they his name revere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man who bullets did not fear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seemed as if his life had charm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That spear or lance could never harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He went alone this wondrous man</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fight false prophet of Sudan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Assistance it arrives too late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And traitors they have oped the gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To meet the foe he doth advance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fatal wound receives from lance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Britons all they do take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Burnaby’s Asiatic ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Russian mysteries to discover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He crossed many a plain and river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And his brave spirit led the van</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To relieve Gordon in Sudan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his strong arm every blow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laid at his feet some Arab foe.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But strong brave man who knew no fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was transfixed by Arab spear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus brave men their lives have lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of war let nations never boast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unless it is in self defence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then they have glorious recompense,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But arts of peace they should be prized</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By nations truly Christianized.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="poets-and-philosophers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Poets and Philosophers</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Bacon, Hogg, Lamb and Shakespeare</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Bacon, philosopher profound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With mighty thoughts his works abound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reflections did his mind engage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were in advance of his own age.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Hogg the Ettrick shepherd bard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High honors all do him award,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great fame and glory he did reap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While tending to his flock of sheep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Lamb, the gentle and the good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His works all show a happy mood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About these names there is no waste,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pleasing to fancy and to taste.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some critics think they do make clear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fact that Bacon wrote Shakespeare,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a gent lives in New York</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asks what effect will it have on pork.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of course it would quick awaken</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A higher estimate of Bacon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it is folly for to rear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His fame on ruins of Shakespeare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though Will was not college bred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With Greek they did not cram his head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he well knew by translations</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The history of the ancient nations.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And mingled daily in the strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With people in all walks of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His plays they are to nature true</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because he wrote of what he knew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Alas that I have wandered here and there”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He does cry out in his despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While he did lead a wandering life</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And left alone his loving wife.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="james-hogg" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">James Hogg</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The wondrous shepherd James Hogg</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was happy with his good sheep dog,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Meditating o’er his sweet lays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While his fleecy flocks did graze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His education it came late</span>
				<br/>
				<span>After he reached to man’s estate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While his flocks were busy feeding</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His favourite authors he was reading.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Wondrous tales he did rehearse</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of witches both in prose and verse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he in fairy tales did glory</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Traditions of each shepherd’s story.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The shepherd he sang late and early</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the deeds of bold Prince Charley,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how the charming bonnie Flora</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soothed the Prince when in his sorrow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Few songs possess so much vigor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As his gathering of McGregor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lover’s heart is all aflame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To meet lassie when the kye comes hame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But one who loved the shepherd’s songs</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sang them unto countless throngs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great Kennedy has passed away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now mournful is our Scottish lay.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="highland-sketches" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Highland Sketches</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Romans, Saxons and the Danes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did oft o’er run the Scottish plains.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So daring were those mauraders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And skilful too were invaders.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The lowland man enjoyed his farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But oft he was in great alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Highlanders o’er plain would sweep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And drive to hills his steers and sheep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For highlandmen were taught in song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lowlands to them did belong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each highland chief he ruled like king</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Bards they did his praises sing,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In war the chief he led the van,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Marching to battle with his clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the foe attacked their chief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The clansmen rushed to his relief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When they King William’s forces mass</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Killicrankie’s famous pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The highlanders with joy and glee</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rushed on them led by bold Dundee.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lowland troops they would not tarry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they strove to ford the Garry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon many on the field lay dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In river floated many a head.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For clansmen with the good broad sword</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of battlefield they soon were Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And historians will rank the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Chief highland victory of Killicrankie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Again there sweeps the highland clans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victorious at Preston Pans,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Under Prince Charlie full of hope,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They drove the troops were led by Cope.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But from Culloden Charlie flies</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While Highland blood the heather dyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For months he wandered ’mong the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Young Flora strove to soothe his ills.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While he was hunted by blood hounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For sake of thirty thousand pounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Highlanders the gold despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And honor only each doth prize.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At last to Charlie’s great delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From France a vessel hove in sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And safely bore the gallant Prince</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the sunny shores of France.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And may once more each hill and glen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be filled with hardy Highland men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who love bagpipes and bonnets blue</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And give to Britain soldiers true.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="castle-gordon" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Castle Gordon</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In youth we spent a pleasant day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Round Castle Gordon on the Spey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is no Clan can gird the sword on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can compare with the Clan Gordon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In India, China and Sudan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They manfully have led the van.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="river-clyde" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">River Clyde</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Glasgow people do take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their river both deep and wide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In early times the youth and maid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did o’er its shallow waters wade.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But city money did not grudge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And dug it deep with the steam dredge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now proudly on its bosom floats</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mighty ships and great steamboats.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No wonder citizens take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they themselves have made the Clyde,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great and navigable river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where huge fleets will float forever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dunbarton’s lofty castle rock<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-29" id="noteref-29" epub:type="noteref">29</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which oft’ has stood the battle’s shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The river it doth boldly guard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So industry may reap reward.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But more protection still they deem</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is yet required so down the stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strong batteries are erected,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So commerce may be safe protected.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old ocean now he doth take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see upon his bosom ride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The commerce of his youngest bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fair and lovely charming Clyde.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lofty-actors-withdraw" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lofty Actors Withdraw</h2>
			<p>
				<span>As one by one the lofty actors of the age</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Withdraw from clianging play on history’s page,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The act of war and peace of old and new contending</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it is long ere there’s harmonious blending.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And many a noble actor brave and bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hath perished in the fight between the new and old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The victor and the vanquished Lincoln and Lee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The former he four million slaves set free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The latter General fought with bravery and science,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first he on the Lord placed strong reliance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in the justice of his cause he bade the North</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As grand emancipators they should issue forth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And o’er great North the conquering name of Grant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mighty deeds of valour they ’ere more will chant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now doth pass from stage this last named actor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In crushing Southern slavery potent factor.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="united-states" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">United States</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The United States is wondrous land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Within its mighty borders grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are a world unto themselves,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In South the Negro plows and delves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Raising tobacco, sugar, cotton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grapes and rice too may be gotten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The west for corn, cattle and swine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On which millions o’er the world dine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The silver hills of Colorado,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Equaled only by Nevada,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the world you can’t behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Aught like California’s mines of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To vast extent her exports reaches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of grapes and oranges and peaches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Florida the land of flowers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is famous for its orange bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pennsylvania’s hills environ</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wondrous mines of coal and iron,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great marvel of these modern days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All you require yourselves could raise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But still Canadians are content</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With their own half of continent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though Uncle Sam is most wealthy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Canada’s content and healthy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sam and her are blood relation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sprung alike from British nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May peaceful odes alone be sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tween people of one race and tongue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When Canada’s ten million strong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then none will dare to do her wrong,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Either as a youthful nation</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or in Imperial Federation.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="caledonia-springs-new-york" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Caledonia Springs, New York</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The water spouts up from the ground</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there doth form a pond around,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis fed from no apparent rills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it near by drives several mills.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And here the little ponds are seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where fish are propagate by Green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fish hatcheries here had their birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now they’re spread o’er all the earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here in each pond thousands of trout</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rush around their circular route,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of various breeds, age and size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Speckled o’er with various dyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Geologists do gaze with pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On specimens all petrified,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here church is built of those rare stone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fish, reptiles, birds, in days bygone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Strange thoughts in mind it doth awake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it is far from sea and lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Even the hill tops do abound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With proofs here flowed the sea profound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With reverence we gaze around</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On an ancient burial ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those who once did tread the heather</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now rest quietly here together.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="local-sketches" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Local Sketches</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On grassy amphitheatre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spectators sit to view the war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong bold contestants on the plain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each doth strive the prize to gain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Come witness the great tug of war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And see great hammer thrown afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>See running, jumping, highland fling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At concert hear the skylark sing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the bagpipes will send thrills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like echoes from the distant hills,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bold sound of the pibroch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which does resound o’er highland loch.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Young men and maids and fine old dames</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will gather on the banks of Thames,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though we have a tug of war</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twill leave no wound or deadly scar.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="brain-engravings" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Brain Engravings</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Great wonder is the human brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How it impressions doth retain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Inscribed on it are autographs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there is also photographs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And every hill and plain and nook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is deep graven in this book,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A great variety here belongs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Snatches of sermons and of songs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here you’ll find are numerous themes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both mighty thoughts and foolish dreams,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here love and hope so bright and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There hate and doubt and dark despair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And here is too the bower of bliss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where youthful lovers first did kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here are memories of childhood</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of old ages thoughtful mood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>View well the whole, ’tis a strange sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both of suffering and delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You see the parting with old friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where new hearts with yours do blend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Greatest blessing, hope of heaven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For our comfort it is given,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Indented deep in mind of wise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are glories of the heavenly prize.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="survival-of-the-fittest" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Survival of the Fittest</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now let the hero of our song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Be he who gentle treats the throng,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would not cruel treat another,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to each be as to a brother.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he must have both sense and wit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And be possessed of strength and grit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then strong as proof of holy writ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to survive he is most fit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And according to our test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fittest only is the best,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These have a right for to survive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And well they do deserve to thrive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And this kind of evolution</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It will bring no revolution,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But revolve in Christian sphere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where scripture truths are prized and dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Give us the man doth persevere,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And presses on in his career,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Undaunted struggling for the right,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though all mankind ’gainst him unite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though now on top of highest mount,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he has found true honour’s fount,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet those below he don’t despise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But strives to aid them for to rise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="motto" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Motto</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Politeness, perseverance and pluck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To their possessor will bring good luck.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="things-should-be-judged-by-merit" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Things Should Be Judged by Merit</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A picture hung in a public hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it was much admired by all,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Painted by a true artist’s hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The subject it was truly grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Its fame o’er the whole world resounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Valued at ten thousand pounds,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beauteous lady none ’ere passed her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was the work of an old master.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At last a critic keen did gaze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saw ’twas work of modern days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then quick it was pronounced a daub,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And artist but a money grab.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The true, the noble and the grand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will lend to struggling helping hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then let no man of dues be shorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he a subject doth adorn.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-gates-ajar" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Gates Ajar</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A good kind man who knew no malice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happy with wife and daughter Alice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More precious far to him than gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His little darling six years old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>True nobleman with many friends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His career too soon it ends,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The casket friends enshrined with flowers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While soul had fled to heavenly bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The wreaths were lovely, but the star,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Admired by all was gates ajar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The widow led her little girl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To where death his dart did hurl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And stricken her poor father down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But child exclaimed he’s won the crown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he will watch for me afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And keep for me the gates ajar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when we cross the crystal fount,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will point out the heavenly mount,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here neither sun nor moon doth shine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lighted with radiance all divine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For I know well for me he’ll wait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Anxious at the pearly gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I would fear to view alone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glories of the heavenly throne.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pa will admit his little Alice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Safe into the heavenly palace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And glories to me will unfold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we tread the streets of gold.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="child-made-happy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Child Made Happy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a great city hospital</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There lay poor Mary Crosby small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had no friends her heart to cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So time with her passed sad and drear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sought for ease but all in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Month after month she passed in pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had no relative nor friend</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who aid or comfort could her lend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A surgeon saw her cheerless state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And deplored the poor child’s fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She tried to make doll of her finger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sang to it poor little singer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Hers indeed was an awful lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weary days she spent in cot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the poor child she could not walk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it soon exhausted her to talk.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But surgeon bought her ribbon gay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with it she all day did play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The giver often she did bless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought sometimes she was princess.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For in it she did take such pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She fancied she was beauteous bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And was possessed of great riches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or thought herself a wealthy Duchess.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she would bind it round her hair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Imagining that she was fair.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But poor child feels that she must die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She asks the surgeon to come nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And kindly o’er her he doth stand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She asked him for to take her hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thanked him for ribbon green and blue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then evermore bade him adieu.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="power-of-love" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Power of Love</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Love it is the precious loom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Whose shuttle weaves each tangled thread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And works flowers of exquisite bloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Shedding their perfume where we tread.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="her-lovers-step" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Her Lover’s Step</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Step, step, step, ’tis her lover’s walk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knows his step as well’s his talk;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is the favorite of her choice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So his step’s familiar as his voice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Step, step, step, she now is wed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it is now her husband’s tread;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His homeward step it cheers her life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she is a kind faithful wife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he the husband and yet lover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His steps at last do cease forever;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she doth soon hear the tread</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of men who do bear out the dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her heart it now doth throb with pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though she knows sorrow is but vain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For him she never can recall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no more hear his footsteps fall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But still she hopes he yet will come</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And visit her in their old home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But time approaches, she must die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her husband’s footsteps she hears nigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Step, step, step, we ne’er shall part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hear the echo in my heart;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now happiness dispels the gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Radiant with joy my face doth bloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Pain and suffering all are past,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She joyous cried he’s come at last;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon she breathes out her last breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He guides her through the vale of death.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-useful-weed" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Useful Weed</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Do not despise the humble weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the Lord He first sowed the seed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps it bears most precious fruit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And useful leaves and potent root.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though it seems now a useless weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Countless millions it yet may feed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or future ages it may prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Finding in it beauteous dyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or a valued healing balm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will make the heated pulse beat calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the future men of science,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May place on it strong reliance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it may play important part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In advancing skill and art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no person now doth know</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How useful are the weeds that grow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Weeds we now look on with loathing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They may yet be used for clothing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Producing silken glossy coat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or paper fine for the bank note.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But you at present must take heed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And do not grow the cumbrous weed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Either in garden or in field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where plants with profit now do yield.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="golden-egg" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Golden Egg</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In ancient times we have been told</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A goose did lay an egg of gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She did produce one every day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So regular this goose did lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But her stupid foolish master</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wanted her to lay them faster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he at last the goose did kill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gold grist no more came to his mill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But a strange tale we now unfold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In California’s mines of gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There they keep both hens and chickens,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong the gravel scratching pickings.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But hens do find the golden shiner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is too heavy for their dinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it they cannot well digest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it lies solid in their breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then they are slain and you behold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In their craw the shining gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Made up of particles so fine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The purest gold in all the mine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then how happy is the miner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he has sweet fowl for dinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he doth find within its craw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little golden bonanza.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And in Ontario the hen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is worthy of the poet’s pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she doth well deserve the praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bestowed on her for her fine lays.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-dora" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Little Dora</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I tell you what my little Dora,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You do cause my heart to sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell me now you little misses</span>
				<br/>
				<span>What you do with all your kisses.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I see you get them by the dozen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From each aunt and little cousin,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said she I do intend dear pa</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To give them all to you and ma.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And not a single one I’ll miss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I will give you back each kiss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And both of you will feel you’re blest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I pay you interest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’ll better in my bank invest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And put my principle to test,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you can dividend partake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For my bank will never break.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-the-death-of-a-farmers-wife" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on the Death of a Farmer’s Wife</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This good woman when in this life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was kind mother and good wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And managed her household with care,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She and her husband happy pair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And her name it will long be praised</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the large family she has raised,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She laid up treasures in the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now enjoys the Heavenly prize.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She rose each morn with happy smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ardent all the day did toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For work it to her had a charm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And busy was each hand and arm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fighting-for-home" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fighting for Home</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A hawk while soaring on the wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er a tiny sparkling spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beheld a sleek and beauteous mink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was enjoying a bath and drink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And though the hawk was bent on slaughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mink was more at home on water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it is strange this curious quarrel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All occurred in a sunk barrel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the Township of Nissouri,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There the hawk it came to sorrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it strove often for to sink,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In vain it strove to drown the mink,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But mink it did successful balk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All the attacks were made by hawk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bird was drenched, it could not fly,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ne’er again it soared on high.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="every-rose-hath-its-thorn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Every Rose Hath Its Thorn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There was a maiden all forlorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She loved a youth, his name was Thorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he was shy for to disclose</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How he loved dear the sweet May Rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lustre sweet it would give to Thorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If this fair flower would it adorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said he all other names above</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your charming name alone I love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said she of beauty ’tis soon shorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unless that it is joined to Thorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It very soon doth droop and die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she heaved a gentle sigh.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said he we’ll wed to-morrow morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more from me you shall be torn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For you will banish all my woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And near my heart I’ll wear the rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now little rose buds they are born,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All clinging to the parent Thorn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In grace and beauty each one grows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full worthy of the sweet May Rose.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some flowers they only shed their bloom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the sweet month of leafy June,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But May doth bloom each month in year</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A fragrant Rose forever dear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="danger-of-fire-arms" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Danger of Fire Arms</h2>
			<p>
				<span>For to save life one great solver</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be to prohibit the revolver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Weapon of coward and of bully,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who slaughter friends in their folly.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Let now no man or any boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With loaded arms ever toy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Showing off their manly vigor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Pointing to friend and pulling trigger.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And sending bullet through their brain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then exclaim in mournful strain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When friends with grief they are goaded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I did not know that it was loaded.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fire arms oft’ times do bring woes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they kill more friends than foes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunting now o’er fertile fields,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis seldom that it profit yields.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bird-sent-by-providence" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Bird Sent by Providence</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A poor man stood beside his door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His sad fate for to deplore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For landlord’s heart would not relent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And seized his furniture for rent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He hears song sweet as from fairy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon he sees a canary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into his cage it did alight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And poured forth notes sweet and bright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But owner of the bird did mourn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sadly longed for its return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without it she found no delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So she did landlord’s bill requite.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The poor man thinks the bird was sent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the Lord to pay up his rent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he now stout maintains from thence</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That there is a kind Providence.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="help-in-need" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Help in Need</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A poor man’s horse it ran away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon man upon the roadside lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his leg all badly broken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sympathy some gave token.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One said your trouble grieves my heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with his money would not part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Another said, while heaving sighs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It brings the tears into mine eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But a good true hearted man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His heart with kindness it o’er ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poorest man among the three,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A pound he did contribute free.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Others gave in empty feeling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this poor man he did bring healing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The giver only Lord doth prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who helps afflicted for to rise.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-the-finding-of-a-young-mans-body-in-toronto-bay" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on the Finding of a Young Man’s Body in Toronto Bay</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">His identity was discovered by finding the maker’s name on the suit he wore and by sending a strip of the cloth to the maker in Montreal.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A young man’s body long it lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In bottom of Toronto Bay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at last the waters bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And raised him up near to the shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But no one knew his rank or station,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No one knew his home or nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his form and dress were genteel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sorrow many they did feel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Kind man took charge of the remains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And was well rewarded for his pains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So skilful he did him embalm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Restored the features sweet and calm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The father came and he did bless</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man who did restore the face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saved for him his son’s remains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus he fame and honor gains.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-lawn-party" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on a Lawn Party</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Where it was announced ten days previous that the cereus would bloom, August, 1888.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>We own we felt a little curious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the rare night blooming cereus,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as if ’twas divine anointed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It came in bloom at the time appointed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gorgeous too their oleander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>None ’ere saw shrub blossom grander.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="all-men-are-brothers" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">All Men Are Brothers</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We are in ancient stories told,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All were brothers in days of old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But these with facts they do not chime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For all mankind do love the dime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And worship the mighty dollar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And admire the golden collar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The rich man’s washed with whitest lime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The poor man’s cover’d o’er with slime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we should try to love each other</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And treat each man as our brother.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-good-man" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Good Man</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Cheerful and happy was his mood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He to the poor was kind and good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he oft’ times did find them food,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Also supplies of coal and wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never spake a word was rude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cheer’d those did o’er sorrows brood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He passed away not understood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because no poet in his lays</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had penned a sonnet in his praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis sad, but such is world’s ways.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lay-of-the-spring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lay of the Spring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Let others sing their favourite lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From early morn till close of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More useful themes engage our pen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We sing the lay of our good hen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For she doth lay each morn an egg,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it is full and large and big,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Abroad she doth never travel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happy she when scratching gravel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she loud cackles songs of praise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Every morn when e’er she lays,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proud she is when she finds pickings</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to feed her brood of chickens.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It greatly puzzled her one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When she found white nest egg of clay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knew some one did trick play her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she was no brick layer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Vain and stately male bird stalks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leading his hens along the walks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proudly each feather in his tail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes rival roosters for to quail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our muse now soars on feathery wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cheerful it doth hail the spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bringing the sunshine and showers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Green grass and buds and leafy bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So pleasant is the month of May,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When bushes shoot out blooming spray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Ere spring we’re tired of winter’s white,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spring’s varied colours do delight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="high-in-masonry" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">High in Masonry</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Give me a board so I can trace on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How high I have gone as a mason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said worker on true square cut stone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unto some knights of good <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">St.</abbr> John.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each one of them could trace with ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The highest Masonic degrees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tell us how high then you have gone</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They said to worker on cut stone.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Who said to their astonishment</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To top of Washington monument,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I solemnly to you declare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And will swear to fact upon the square.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I there stood thirty-three degrees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While the mercury did freeze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And none of you will have desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In masonry for to go higher.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tramp-and-fish" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tramp and Fish</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A hungry tramp did long for dish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he stole a big bunch of fish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he full soon did come to grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was quick captured as a thief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And brought before the magistrate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So judge he would pronounce his fate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Judge asked him how he came by fish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thief said for them he did wish,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The best fish ever came from brook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I own, my Lord, I did them hook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said constable, he speaks what’s true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you must give the devil his due.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then judge did constable rebuke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He owns fish if he did them hook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has not broken any clause</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I know of in our fishery laws.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Unless you can show this reason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has hooked them out of season,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Your duty you have thus mistook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For man had right the fish to hook.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Fishing here it is not treason,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Him you had no right to seize on,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the poor man did fish hook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had a right the same to cook.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="seal-fishing-and-hunting" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Seal Fishing and Hunting</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Where frosts doth northern bays congeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There you will find the finest seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They do pursue them o’er each bay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From early dawn till close of day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Indians display great zeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Engaged in hunting of the seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ladies love for to display</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their seal furs from this famous bay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Most precious of all furs is seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their flesh is good as finest veal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the seal it is a squatter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lives on either land or water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Indian boys happy feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they capture the young seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They do seem so happy ever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sailing o’er each bay and river.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They train them their canoes to tow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the waters merry go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full quick to right or left they wheel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Guided by reins the docile seal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Like lad on colt without a saddle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These youths use no oar nor paddle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But swift o’er water rushes keel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For ’tis propelled by the fast seal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To Uncle Sam we do appeal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How can you own the whole sea’s seal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at the same time claim our cod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If from the shore a mile abroad.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="snake-and-its-young" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Snake and Its Young</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There is a peculiar snake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">You might almost call it squatter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It loves to dive in pond or lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">At home on either land or water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But it excited my good dog</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see small snakes bask in the sun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enjoying themselves on a big log,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Near into where the water run.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But their mother she was watching</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Her numerous brood on the log,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She thought to them was danger hatching,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When she beheld myself and dog.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For she gave a hissing sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">All her offspring to awake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She ope’d her mouth and at a bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Down her throat did rush each snake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I scarcely my own eyes could trust,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To see those small snakes disappear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I really thought that she would burst,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For the sake of her offspring dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I soon hid among the brakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">To view the young ones leave their prison,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will you believe this tale of snakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">If I did count right just four dozen.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="whale-and-its-foes" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Whale and Its Foes</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Six hundred miles north of Cape Flattery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On sea there seemed a floating battery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And stream of blood did dye the water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sailors wondered what was the matter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they soon saw a great sword fish</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With its bayonet make a quick rush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into which proved to be large whale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thrasher too did it assail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The whale dived deep to save its life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But thrasher eager for the strife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Knew whale must rise for to get breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then it would thrash the whale to death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At last the great whale it arose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in distress it spouts and blows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In anger sweeps its mighty tail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Defensive weapon of the whale.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But thrasher high in air did leap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fell on monster of the deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sword fish then it did advance,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And assaulted it with its lance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thus united foes soon do prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And quick there floated a dead whale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thrasher now victorious winner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From off the whale expected dinner.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But ship’s crew they secured the prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whale bone and blubber monster size,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Others fought but they only reap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The spoils of mammoth of the deep.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tiger-and-elephant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tiger and Elephant</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On Ganges banks roams the tiger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And lion rules by the Niger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunter heard shrill cry of peacocks,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Indian jungles go in flocks.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he saw tiger crouch and spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To crush a bird with beauteous wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the tiger missed his aim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he hung his head with shame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then there came a mighty crush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of elephants rush through the bush,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The tiger cat-like crouched on ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And elephants rushed in with bound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In front was baby elephant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To crush its bones did tiger want,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mother saw fierce forest ranger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she gave a cry of danger.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Leader of herd he madly rushed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved the tiger should be crushed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But tiger strove to run away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Willing to relinquish prey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when he found that he must fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On elephant’s back he strove to light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But elephant struck him with his foot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And then with tusks he did him root.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So now once more must praise be sung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To beasts who nobly fight for young,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grateful feelings were now stirred,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Towards the leader of the herd.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="strange-life-preserver" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Strange Life Preserver</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A sailor he was swept from deck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In minute he seem’d as a speck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tossing on each briny wave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They feared the sea would be his grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though they full quickly launched the boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They could not see where he did float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He now was a long ways astern,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His whereabouts they could not learn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But while he on the waves did toss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was seized by great Albatross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who had been looking round in quest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of something whereon it could rest.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-30" id="noteref-30" epub:type="noteref">30</a></span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It hover’d o’er him with its wings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And its great webb feet on him clings,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it tore him with its sharp beak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it was longing for some steak.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But sailor seized it by the throat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found with ease he then could float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So sailor’s life was saved by loss</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the life of the Albatross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The boat’s crew found him none too soon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he had fallen into a swoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Him they would not have come across</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had they not seen the Albatross.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And thus poor Jack his life was saved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fierce rage of bird he braved,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though in a faint he still did cling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One arm round neck and one round wing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For as a friend he did hug close</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That fine large bird the Albatross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sailors row comrade back to ship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he relates his wondrous trip.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sailors fear that many a cross<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-31" id="noteref-31" epub:type="noteref">31</a></span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will fall on crew kill Albatross,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This was slain in self defence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And so no harm it came from thence.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“The lone Albatross incumbent on the air.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="virtues-of-a-diamond-ring" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Virtues of a Diamond Ring</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Of the strange virtues of a ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In simple strains we now will sing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brave warrior of ancient France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where danger was he did advance.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he at last was struck by ball</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on the battle field did fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They dug for him a shallow grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slightly cover’d warrior brave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But his servant man with warm heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Loathed with his master thus to part,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So he moved soil from where he lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found a lump of lifeless clay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He turned away in sad despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That could not be his master fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That famed brave youth of noble birth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now all stained o’er with blood and earth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As he begins to move away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The moon reflects on brilliant ray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From diamond ring on dead man’s finger</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The servant now doth fondly linger.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For he knows it’s his master’s ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hopes to life he may him bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In finger he discovers heat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And hopes his heart it still may beat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though surgeons they pronounce him dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For long he bathes his breast and head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slowly master did restore</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fight more brave than he had before.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now this tale to close we bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of warrior saved by a ring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Full oft again to fight for king,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His praise his countrymen they sing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="child-saved-by-dog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Child Saved by Dog</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Johnston he is an engineer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He always looks if track is clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he hath a keen eagle eye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Danger afar he doth espy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he hath too a warm true heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of others woes he shares a part;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One day he gazed far down the line,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a large dog he could define.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So eager busy on the track,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In mouth it seemed to lift a pack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it oftentimes did fail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to raise it o’er the rail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The engineer put on his steam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he loud made his whistle scream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that the dog would take alarm</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus preserve his life from harm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This noble dog, it feared not danger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fear to him it was a stranger,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His mistress child he wished to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the danger he would brave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His last great effort did prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He raised it safe beyond the rail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Into a snug and hollow spot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A place seem’d formed for a child’s cot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This dog of noble mastiff breed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For his own safety took no heed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at approaching train did bark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make them to his troubles hark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The engineer did sad bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the dog still on the rail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A moment more the beast is slain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cut in two by the cruel train.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The engineer now shuts off steam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to investigate the theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That caused the dog to die at post,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Finds to save child its life it lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Faithful in the cause of duty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saving life of little beauty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little darling three year old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More precious than her weight in gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On track she wandered for to play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon she in quiet slumber lay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And all the efforts of old Towser,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were not able to arouse her.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mother now in agony wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rushed down to train to find her child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There she found it sweetly sleeping,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While some for faithful dog were weeping.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And a brave man was engineer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he himself knew not of fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his heart was filled with pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because the noble dog was slain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="leach-the-engineer" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Leach the Engineer</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The engineer who drives the train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From scalds he oft doth suffer pain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are more noble scars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than hirelings gain in foreign wars.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our hero’s name should live forever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Train wrecked in Columbia River,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fatal scalded was Frank Leach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In mid the river far from beach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heroic deed it should be sung.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though his flesh in ribbons hung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saw a man who could not swim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he resolved to rescue him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And success his efforts crowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saved the man from being drowned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For him upon his back he bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And boldly swam with him to shore.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Heroic deed we now enroll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And grave it deep on fame’s scroll,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For this great truth we wish to teach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High ’mong our heroes ranks Frank Leach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When he had but short time to live,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His strength and skill he both did give,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His poor fellow man to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From laying in a watery grave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The heroes oft in days of old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were those who hired to fight for gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the true heroes we revere</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth fight for home and country dear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="jackal-and-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Jackal and Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In the great Province of Bengal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The scavenger is the Jackal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it doth love each night to feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the carrion of some beast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stench of which pollutes the air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But to this beast ’tis sweet and fair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carcass to it is source of wealth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jackals promote the public health.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the “Seapoys” did rebel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A strange adventure child befell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An English Colonel and his wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They thought still distant was the strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And left their little girl at home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While they to distant village roam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus saved their lives from slaughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But rebels carried off their daughter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their servant woman, a Hindu,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They knew her to be kind and true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It almost drove her crazy wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see them dragging off the child.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Colonel soon he doth return,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in his breast fierce rage doth burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He knows the child is doomed to die,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But he the rebels will defy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So quick he doth gird on his sword,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And asks for blessings from the Lord,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He puts his pistols in their case,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carries with him trusty brace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Seapoys by the river side</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Left child to drown in rising tide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Jackal went there for water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spied the Colonel’s daughter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He knew the river soon would rise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So quick he carried off the prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though love for child he does not feel,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He only wants her for a meal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He ran with her towards the south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carrying her in his broad mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Colonel had a strong desire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On this savage beast for to fire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But from it he refrained for fear</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ball might strike his little dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saw that brute was now weary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Running with his little dearie.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So he then quickly gave it chase,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And full soon then he gained the race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The coward beast then dropped the child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fled away in terror wild.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With joy Colonel he doth weep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he finds babe is still asleep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And on it neither scar nor trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can disfigure its fair face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now he takes it in his arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With joy and pride surveys its charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We fear that kisses did it smother</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he handed it to mother.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="little-hero" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Little Hero</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Mong silver hills of Nevada</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is many a wild bravado,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who oft indulge in lawless vice,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there are pearls of great price.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rough hearts, but true at the core,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There is the genuine silver ore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it needs skill of the refiner</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find pure gems in the miner.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Far from their home two children stray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the mountains far away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The eldest of these travellers bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jack Smith he was but six years old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So far poor children went abroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That both at last they lost their road,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But their good dog the trusty Rover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By scent and search doth them discover.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Their friends they search for them in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dark night comes on and heavy rain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And savage wolves around them howl,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they fear Rover’s bark and growl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the third day the searchers hark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For sounds and they hear Rover’s bark,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Joyous that boys were alive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that though feeble they survive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Miners they left their silver ore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for more precious pearls explore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the children they discover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Tis unbounded then their pleasure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The eldest little hero bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had stripped his coat to keep the cold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From little brother three years old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A worthy deed should be extolled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From home they were many a league,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And weak with hunger and fatigue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each clung upon a miner’s back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On their way home down mountain track.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="gray-hairs" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Gray Hairs</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Once on a time a lady quarrelled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the witty Douglass Jerrold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because that he had been so bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To hint that she was growing old.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She said her hair was dark ’till one day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She used an essence turned it gray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O, yes, said he, tincture of time</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Affects the hair in this our clime.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="good-shot" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Good Shot</h2>
			<p>
				<span>At great reunion of the South,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of those had faced the cannon’s mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each could show a glorious scar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had received in the war.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And there was an artillery major,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said he, I am free to wager</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fired the best shot in the war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fame of it was heard afar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Federals fired at us a shell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And near our battery it fell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It gave us momentary alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it caused us little harm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the fuse it ceased to burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And I resolved shell to return</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the same spot from whence it came,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I put in fuse was sure to flame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From mortar’s mouth it went forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seeking for vengeance on the North,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this swift messenger from South</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It entered their great cannon’s mouth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And blew the gun all into atoms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which left desolate many homes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But North had justice on her side.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In truth and virtue was her pride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And high Heaven had well decreed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the poor slave he should be freed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even the South doth prosper more</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With freedom than she did before.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lost-son-found" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lost Son Found</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An English ship when homeward bound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near to its port was shipwrecked found,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it had struck a sunken rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And was slowly sinking from the shock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In port they quick did man life boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which o’er tempestuous sea did float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They rescued all the crew, save one,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And were content with what they done.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they had not their captain, Harry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who on the shore was forced to tarry,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And knew not of the disaster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So crew had worked without a master.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when he heard of the shipwreck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that a man was left on deck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He quickly hurried the boat’s crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to again attempt his rescue.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But earnestly his old mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reminded him of his lost brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Perhaps drowned in foreign sea,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She cried, son, stay and comfort me.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But wreck they reach and rescue man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thrill of joy o’er city ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When it was found ’twas Harry’s brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had returned to comfort mother.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thus providence rewards the brave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who strive their fellow men to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mother’s griefs it did assuage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And happy now is her old age.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="shoe-black" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Shoe Black</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Gent on sidewalk held out his foot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While boy in gutter brushed his boot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at this time, how sad, alas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An unruly horse did o’er him pass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The child for friends he sad did lack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They said he was but a shoeblack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Kind hearted man the poor child bore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a soft cot in back of store.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And brought from hospital ward</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A skilful nurse the lad to guard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She often listened for his breath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he was passing the vale of death.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But, poor child, once he ope’d his eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he looked round in great surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Feebly he asked, heaving a sigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where in the world now am I.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tender nurse bent o’er his face,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And said, dear boy, you’re in good place,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She asked his name, he said it was Tom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that for long he had no home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And since his mother was stricken dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He had not once reposed in bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And while suffering child did rack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He eagerly asked will mother come back.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The nurse she gently answered, no,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But, to your dear mother you can go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In his last sleep he had a dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shining up boots it was his theme.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He soon awoke and called out, mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I see you and little brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Christ, I know, has me forgiven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they are beckoning me to Heaven.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="duck-and-oyster" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Duck and Oyster</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Once on a time there lived a duck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And by its fishing it did thrive;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So one day it longed to suck</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">An oyster and for one did dive.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The oyster near shore lay open,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">The duck, its gizzard for to fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved that he would pop in</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Between the shells his sharp bill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And then he would have glorious treat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But oyster closed on it its shell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And duck it got no oyster meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But worse than that the duck befell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This oyster was so very large,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It held the duck’s head under water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And towed small oysters like a barge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Each one clung to it like squatter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Duck it died of too much moisture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And it floated towards the beach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to its bill clung big oyster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Sticking to it like a horse leach.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On the shore there stood a shyster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Watching fat duck floating to him,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the wondrous big oyster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">How fine it would be to stew them.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Alas the duck lost its dinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And at the same time lost its life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on it dined a hungry sinner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Who did reap all the spoils of strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For when the duck to land did float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">It towed small oysters not a few,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it sailed like to a boat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">With fat duck pie and oyster stew.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None can the poor duck’s fate bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">For it reckoned without its host,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It strove for conquest and did fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Fighting for spoil it battle lost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You see the wild duck did not know,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">When it attacked the big oyster,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It had to fight a numerous foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Of these shell fish a whole cluster.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Borne feathers on briny billow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">They were full of springy down,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they made a glorious pillow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">Where fellow he could rest his crown.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This chap he did not plow nor sow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">But from sea and land he did reap</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wealth that others caused to grow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span class="i1">And thus he treasures up did heap.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="baby-darling" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Baby Darling</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A miner in California mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For his distant home he did repine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In a far off Eastern state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where did live his own dear mate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And one great source of all his joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His little darling baby boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One night to drive his cares away</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To concert hall his footsteps stray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And loud resounding o’er the hall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He heard a little boy squall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweetest music he e’er heard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweeter far than singing bird.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For his thoughts it caused to roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his distant eastern home,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Near to the mine there were no trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of baby dear or woman’s face.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When violinist with his bow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did make exquisite music flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The miner he did loudly bawl</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stop fiddle and let baby squall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My sad heart his cries doth cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Reminding me of my own dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For sooner I would him behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than if I found a mine of gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For what are all the joys of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So far away from child and wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But few more months I will stay here</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then join my wife and baby dear.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="riding-an-avalanche" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Riding an Avalanche</h2>
			<p>
				<span>With our Canadian snow shoes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er snow you walk where’er you choose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But on long shoes Norwegian</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are like narrow toboggan.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And all your movements you control</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the aid of a stout long pole,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With it you balance or propel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we show now what once befell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Two miners full of pluck and game,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wished to locate a mining claim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On a high steep mountain crest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Colorado of the West.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though snow was deep they would attempt</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their good mine for to pre-empt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So up the mountain they do climb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Covered o’er with snow and rime.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Norwegian shoes slide over the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>High and higher still they go,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One was two hundred yards ahead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till snow gives way where he doth tread.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which quickly starts an avalanche,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He seizes on a stout tree branch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all in vain he rushes fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His snow shoes in the avalanche.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His friend on shoes Norwegian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like lightning down the hill he ran,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or rather o’er the ice did glide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down the long steep and glassy slide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And after him the Avalanche,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tearing up trees both root and branch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The man on Avalanche doth yell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To his friend you are doing well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With your shoes Norwegian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Swifter than a toboggan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Go on, go on, you’ll win the race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For we are slack’ning in our pace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But, alas! poor runner feels</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Avalanche doth touch his heels,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall he be buried in the mass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or will the vast pile o’er him pass.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He stops quite sudden ’neath a rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It passed o’er him with mighty shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though it did cause him great alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet still he was all safe from harm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Avalanche yet downward slides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his friend on it he rides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until it safely him doth launch</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On outer edge of his own ranch.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>After three miles down the gulch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They both might have been crushed to mulch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The one he seemed to run a race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While one on Avalanche did chase.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But it was not for bravado,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One rode, one run in Colorado,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it was desperate the strife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each had for to secure his life.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This tale of shoes Norwegian</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is not for the collegian,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for such youths as do take pride</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In reading of a wondrous slide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="final-address-to-our-patrons" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Final Address to Our Patrons</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Now to our friends who proved so true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We bid you for short time adieu.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="card-of-thanks-to-the-press" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Card of Thanks to the Press</h2>
			<p>
				<span>It is folly now to aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or to seek for distant fame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But rest content if we can claim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Something of a local name.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the pleasant banks of Thame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because in simple strains we sung</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glories of this country young.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cows, and milk, and cream and cheese</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of fat steers sent o’er the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of horses plowing land with ease,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of hogs and sheep and hens and bees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Themes worthy of our songs and glees.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-canada" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Canada</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A land o’er flowing with milk and honey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the industrious may gather money,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here men do not rank for wealth they inherit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The stamp of nobility is one of merit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though we cannot boast of antiquities old</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We truly can boast of mines of pure gold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the discoveries at Fraser River</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hudson Bay monopoly to pieces will shiver.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Britain at present little would move her</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To present to Canada Hudson Bay and Vancouver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then she would be a yoang giant empire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As great as a Briton could well desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then with the whole of British America</span>
				<br/>
				<span>United by railroad as well as by law,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proudly we might with banners unfurled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Proclaim her the great highway of the world.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-glorious-land-of-maple-leaf" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Glorious Land of Maple Leaf</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Come let us join the tuneful throng</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sing a new Canadian song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As this great lands of woods and lakes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sweet melody in us awakes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For of all land this is the chief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This glorious land of maple leaf.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is land of streams and rivers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the land of toiling beavers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More noble emblems we rely on</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than preying eagle, bear or lion,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>True, worthy honours are not brief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But flourish shall the maple leaf.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the grand maple wood is strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And labour ranks high in our song</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So let us glory in our soil</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where nature doth reward for toil,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ever banish all our grief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing in our maple leaf.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>With gloom we should not be o’ercast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For we have a young empire vast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Awaiting only for the plough</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all with wealth it will endow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then of all lands ’twill be the chief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This glorious land of maple leaf.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="canadian-cheese-trade" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Canadian Cheese Trade</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Ranney left his native state</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his industrious, skilful mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They settled down in Dereham</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then, no dairymen lived near them.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>It sailed with triumph o’er the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas hailed with welcome queen of cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>Early and bright in bygone years</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One of a noble form appears,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved the milk flood shall go forth</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flowing o’er his county to the north,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now Perth has cheese crop large and fine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thanks to cheese champion Ballantyne.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="peculiarities-of-oxford-county" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<hgroup>
					<h2 epub:type="title">Peculiarities of Oxford County</h2>
					<p epub:type="subtitle">Its Numerous Windmills</p>
				</hgroup>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">It would be amusing to many, if Don Quixote flourished at the present time and rode through this county bestride his fiery charger, couching his lance and clapping spurs to his steed and tilting his spear at the giants of his imagination, the windmills, for there is not a county in Canada that contains as many of those useful water pumpers. We could point out some spots near the cross roads where eight mills can be seen at a glance round.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis charming for to view windmill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Picturesque in vale or hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forcing up a sparkling rill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cows enjoy with right good will</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Clear water brewed in nature’s still,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of it they do drink their fill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No wonder they can make with ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Oxford world renowned cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For cows enjoy the clear pure stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With rich, sweet grass makes best of cream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cow, you must treat her as a queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When grass is dry cut her feed green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its benefits will quick be seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she is a grand milk machine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The system it is called soiling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But it repays for extra toiling.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="prophecy-of-a-ten-ton-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Prophecy of a Ten Ton Cheese</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">In presenting this delicate, dainty morsel to the imagination of the people, I believed that it could be realized. I viewed the machine that turned and raised the mamoth cheese, and saw the powerful machine invented by James Ireland at the West Oxford companies factory to turn the great and fine cheese he was making there. This company with but little assistance could produce a ten ton cheese.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Who hath prophetic vision sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In future times a ten ton cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Several companies could join</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To furnish curd for great combine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More honor far than making gun</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of mighty size and many a ton.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Machine it could be made with ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That could turn this monster cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The greatest honour to our land</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would be this orb of finest brand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three hundred curd they would need squeeze</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to make this mammoth cheese.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So British lands could confederate</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three hundred provinces in one state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When all in harmony agrees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To be pressed in one like this cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then one skillful hand could acquire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Power to move British empire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But various curds must be combined</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each factory their curd must grind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To blend harmonious in one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This great cheese of mighty span,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And uniform in quality</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A glorious reality.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But it will need a powerful press</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This cheese queen to caress,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a large extent of charms</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hoop will encircle in its arms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we do not now despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But we shall see it at world’s fair.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And view the people all agog, so</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Excited o’er it in Chicago,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To seek fresh conquests queen of cheese</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She may sail across the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where she would meet reception grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the warm hearts in old England.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="low-price-of-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Low Price of Cheese</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">When the price of cheese was so low that the farmers threatened to kill or sell off their cows, we circulated the following lines freely among them:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Price soon will rise though now ’tis low</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And brooks of milk will onward flow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Were they collected in one stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There would be floods of milk and cream.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="an-average-rule-to-judge-of-cheese" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">An Average Rule to Judge of Cheese</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An average rule it will be found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ten pounds of milk will nmke one pound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of cheese, will sell in numbers round</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wholesale at ten cents a pound.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In season, factory can with ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make quarter million pounds of cheese,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which doth sum up the figures grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In dollars, twenty-five thousand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Judge of the stream of milk doth flow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To factories in Ontario,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where they number one thousand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Scattered o’er this fair, fertile land.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One company hath branches near</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes o’er one million pounds a year;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They fill an order in a trice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus obtain a higher price.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So quickly they can make car load</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To fill an order from abroad;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Advantage cheese has over grain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In shipping it across the main.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It is great saving in the freight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its value is six times as great</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each pound, as barley, wheat or peas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So it pays best to ship the cheese.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="address-to-the-dairymens-association" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Address to the Dairymen’s Association</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead"><abbr>Feb.</abbr>, 1891.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Dairymen’s association</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leading feeders of our nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they promote this grand combine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To raise good cows and fatten swine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The cow doth now enjoy her hay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But longs for snow to pass away,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So she o’er pasture lands can stray,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She dearly loves the month of May.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Great source of wealth the cows do yield</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While they do roam o’er grassy field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along the banks of crystal stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which makes our cheese so rich with cream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the pigs, they may enjoy their whey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which makes them grow without delay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the sections they make cheese</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it with the hog agrees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It doth expand them every way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peas and coarse grain makes fat to stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to bran slops they won’t say nay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong grass they love to root away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the pigs, they should all be sold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before that they are nine months’ old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then they make delicious meat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So young, and tender and so sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At the great pork factory of Grant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Big fat hogs no more they want,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all the young pigs you can rear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two hundred thousand every year.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-mammoth-cheese-and-cheese-factories" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Mammoth Cheese and Cheese Factories</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Among the first who took stock in</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mammoth cheese,<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-32" id="noteref-32" epub:type="noteref">32</a> were <abbr>Bros.</abbr> Noxon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They made the great hoop and the screw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the strong truck which the mighty drew.</span>
			</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>
				<span>In dairy progress we do trace the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Mammoth curd to Robert Facey;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His perseverence all do honor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The Harrietsville Factory owner.</span>
			</p>
			<section id="the-centennial-prize-winner">
				<h3 epub:type="title">The Centennial Prize Winner</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Reflecting back our thoughts do run</span>
					<br/>
					<span>To him Centennial prize did won;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Highest honor it was gained by Dunn,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>The owner of the Factory’s<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-33" id="noteref-33" epub:type="noteref">33</a> son.</span>
				</p>
				<p>* Though we have described the above cheese as miglity, yet it did not contain a single mite.</p>
				<p>The late Daniel Pheisan took a deep interest in the great cheese, and in promoting cheese factories, he became wealthy and died in Woodstock. <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Robert Facy was the cheesemaker at <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Harris, Factory the time when the big cheese was made.</p>
				<p>* The above factory is now the North Oxford Company’s.</p>
				<p>* The Western Cheese District has the following centres: Ingersoll London, Stratford, Listowol and Woodstock.</p>
				<p>Brockville and Belleville are in Eastern District.</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-hog" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on a Hog</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Weighing one thousand pounds, and measuring seven feet nine inches in length.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Pig had to do some routine work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To make one thousand pounds of pork;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our stomach it doth not incline,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To eat a hog seven feet nine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On smaller pig we love to dine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it we do enjoy so fine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For big fat hog we don’t repine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Let others eat enormous swine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-a-big-ox" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on a Big Ox</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Said to be 18 feet long.⁠—On exhibition at the Western Fair, <abbr>Sept.</abbr> ’85.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>The Statememt doth me surprise, Sir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which I read in <i epub:type="se:name.publication.newspaper">Advertiser</i>;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Can it be true or but an hoax,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This tale of eighteen feet long ox?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It almost doth exceed belief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This great living, mammoth beef;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fear the measurement will fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unless extended is its tail.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-written-to-alderman-frankland" epub:type="division">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines Written to Alderman Frankland</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1890.</p>
			</header>
			<p>I sent a copy of my poems to the pioneer of the cattle trade in Canada, and the exporter of fine bullocks received my present with a good deal of appreciative feeling, as my book recalled the older early times to his memory, and his kind reply induced me to pen the following; as the export of live cattle trade will soon reach the annual value of ten millions of dollars, and it is second only to the cheese export trade.</p>
			<section id="lines-on-the-pioneer-exporter-of-canadian-bullocks-to-britain" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">Lines on the Pioneer Exporter of Canadian Bullocks to Britain</h3>
				<p>
					<span>Baron of butcher’s burly brave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Who ships live bullocks o’er the wave,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And elevates the beef standard,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Boldly he led on the vanguard.</span>
				</p>
				<p>
					<span>Now export cattle trade ranks grand,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Thanks to enterprise of Frankland;</span>
					<br/>
					<span>Forever more this trade will grow,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>And blessings on this land bestow.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="the-patriotic-canadian-hen" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Patriotic Canadian Hen</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">She will lay big double-yolk eggs and evade the duty.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>A hen observed unto her mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who was strutting round in state,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As roosters do who think they’re great,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About egg tariff do not fret.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Cheap eggs I’ll give the Yankee folk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I will lay big double yolk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And very large shell I will fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peck a flaw in McKinley Bill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I heard the farmer’s wife one day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These words unto her husband say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s nothing on the farm doth pay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So well as these our hens do lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My love for you, my rooster, grows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There’s none can match your morning crow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You crow the hour Chronometer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You weather crow Barometer.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the poor duck it hath sad lack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All it can do it is to quack;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of course the poor thing must regret,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It don’t belong into our set.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I pity the web-footed things,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who in water love to flap their wings;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The reason is of course because</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They’re not genteel like us with claws.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It doth not lay one half the time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We do, but wallows in the slime,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On land it is but a squatter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Broad bills, more at home on water.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-canadian-horse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Canadian Horse</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The fame of the Canadian Horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is heard on many a course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For it has won oft in the race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And renowned for graceful pace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Great change from the Indian pony,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who in old times was the only</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Horse that you could drive or ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now you have the powerful Clyde.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis true that he is rather slow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But deep he plows so you may sow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And over any kind of road</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He will pull a mighty load.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of brutes the horse doth lead the van,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he is the best friend of man;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well trained, so gentle and so kind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And next he ranks to man in mind.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-apiary" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Apiary</h2>
			<p>
				<span>The Apiary is a bee village,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From thence they fly bent on pillage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Extracting honey from the flowers;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They care not who doth own the bowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They seize on garden or on field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherever blossoms sweets do yield;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong garden flowers or fields of clover</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They do roam about all over.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For their own use they make the honey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though owners sell it oft for money.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bees so skilful do design</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their honey comes and they love sunshine.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From flower to flower they fly on wing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each one armed with a sharp sting,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Determined all the sweets to sieze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those marauding honey bees.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They live in a great commonwealth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they punish fraud or stealth;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They busy toil from morn ’till ’een,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they are loyal to their Queen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But bees, like men, they sometimes thrive</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By robbing of their neighbors hive;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The weaker from their homes they drive,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While stronger flourish and survive.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sheep" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sheep</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This advantage hath the sheep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two crops each yoar from them you reap;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You get big price for tender lamb,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crop of wool from shearing dam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Industrious wife can spin the yarn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And knit the socks, or old ones darn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or weave it up in her own loom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thrift to wealth it soon will bloom.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Or if to weaving she is loath,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She can sell wool and buy her cloth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or buy her hose knit by machine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And life enjoy like to a queen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But very oft the farmer’s wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Has to work hard through all her life;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If husband has to drive the ploughs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wife perhaps must milk the cows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she too may churn the butter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no grumble she doth utter;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though she doth work as hard as slave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All trials she doth nobly brave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Oft times large family she doth raise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her virtues they have cause to praise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A guardian angel o’er her young,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they were feeble round her clung.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tile-drains" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Tile Drains</h2>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis sad to see the richest land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Barren where water it doth stand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You seek for crop but all in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For land requires the under drain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But you cause mother earth to smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When ventilated by the tile;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before, she felt sour and old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Drains warm her heart and expel cold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Porous now are all her veins,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From filtration of the drains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each tiny sparkling rill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sends through her heart a pleasing thrill.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Before, it was cold and crusty,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it was both sour and musty;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now it doth beat high with hopes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing in her mighty crops.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tile must be laid straight and level,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But of course with a slight bevel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sloping towards ditch or creek,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where way to ocean it doth seek.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis true that fiercer rages floods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Since country it was stripp’d of woods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rivers they do broader spread,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With numerous tile drains quicker fed.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="nickel-mines" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Nickel Mines</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Prospectors from all nations hurry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To locate mines in Sudbury;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To them the highest worldly fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is to secure good mining claim.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No hardships daunt them in attempt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A good mining claim for to pre-empt;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the old miners here from Wales,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of these mines tell glowing tales.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mining fortune oft is fickle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ’tis not so with mines of nickel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Uncle Sam thinks he would feel</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His navy safe ’neath nickel steel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Railroads perform important function,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In opening mines at Sudbury Junction;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There if the rocks you do but tickle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They smile and you behold the nickel.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And where the landscape late has been</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Covered o’er with forest green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fire has left charred stumps of pine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there too is the glittering mine.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-34" id="noteref-34" epub:type="noteref">34</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mild-christmas" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mild Christmas</h2>
			<p>
				<span>On Christmas Day of eighty-nine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sun all day did pleasant shine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cows they would not eat their hay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But o’er the pasture lands did stray.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Such winter day is seldom seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Instead of white the fields were green;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Colts and young cattle they did play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Happy as in the month of May.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Canadians do delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see the landscape robed in white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To them the sweetest music dwells</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In merry tinkle of sleigh bells.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And land doth more abundant yield,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the snow mantle covers field;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And farmer quick can load his sleigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cheerful drive o’er icy way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For true Canadians love the snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And like to hear old Boreas blow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For with just pride they all do boast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They love the winter’s cold and frost.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-steamboat" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Steamboat</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In early times the swift steamboat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er the broad ocean did not float,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But ships were wafted o’er the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With sails inflated by the breeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In progress they could not prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ’gainst ship’s haad did blow the gale;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oft times for many a day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Becalmed on ocean’s breast they lay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now the mighty monarch, steam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er land and sea doth rule supreme;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Steamship proudly ploughs the ocean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Independent of wind’s motion.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From Scottish hill when I was boy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I cried out in my childish joy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The thought which filled my heart with glee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>America, I plainly see.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then I was told to my amaze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That it was far beyond my gaze;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The chart to me was then unfurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To prove I could not see whole world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The truth to me was great surprise then,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That world was greater than horizon;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our views through life they thus expand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Beholding God’s creation grand.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="duties-of-life" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Duties of Life</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Life is greatly what we make it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through good and ill we must take it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we should not troubles borrow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But strive to banish all our sorrow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each man for life should choose a mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And true love should cultivate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For women unto us are given,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To transform the earth to Heaven.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Abroad the men should never roam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But make a Paradise of home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Domestic bliss is truest joy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wife and little girl and boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But all need to be forgiven,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to put their trust in Heaven;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The truest joys are above,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Obtained alone but through Christ’s Love.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While doing right if you seem to fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You must not for a moment quail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But at once banish all your fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Press nobly on in your career.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>More honor far then you will gain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because you strove right to obtain;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as you have been dutiful,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You’ve won good, true and beautiful.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="great-fire-in-michigan" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Great Fire in Michigan</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">Farmer’s Loss</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>Many a homestead it was burned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a family sadly mourned,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The death of those were near and dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But fire the tangled bush did clear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And soon our country was more wealthy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now already ’tis more healthy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Twas cheap way matted brush to clear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for the loss of friends so near.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We lost our houso and barn and corn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for long we did not mourn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there came quick to our relief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The nation’s aid to soothe our grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seems to me now but a dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How our lives were saved in a broad stream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our cattle and horse there we drove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bears and wolves were there, by jove.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though all were huddled in a jam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each wild beast was as quiet as lamb;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And there we were for three whole days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Surrounded by the furious blaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Worse than the fire the awful smoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To death by hundreds it did choke;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Many thought it was judgment day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When Heaven and earth would pass away.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="horace-greely-and-mrs-staunton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Horace Greely and <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staunton</h2>
			<p>
				<span>During the late great civil war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which did the Grand Republic jar</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From its circumference to its centre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The grand old mnn he did venture.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While chatting with a lady freely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I demand, said Horace Greely,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And do not think my question wanton,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But answer me, <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Staunton,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Would you go South and fight to quell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those bold men who do rebel;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If you got woman’s suffrage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would you in deadly war engage.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our country now wants every man,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of women too all we can;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each to shoulder trusty rifle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So South with us no more may trifle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>You’re champion of woman’s rights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And should take part like men in flights;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said she, I never could delight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To slay a man in bloody fight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So my fair hands I’ll not imbue,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I will stay at home like you,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And urge the others on to war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And keep from battle field afar.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Mistress Staunton she was really</span>
				<br/>
				<span>More robust than Horace Greely;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she possessed a noble form,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even now would face the storm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="reflections-after-reading-the-coming-race-and-looking-backward" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Reflections After Reading “The Coming Race” and “Looking Backward”</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When the great Bulwer’s pen did trace</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The history of the coming race,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His hero to us hath unfurled</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The glories of his new-found world.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This bold traveller he did venture</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far below our world’s centre;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He entered through an ancient mine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to us doth new world define.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once all was discord and fierce wars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Continuous engaged in jars,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till they discovered great Vril power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then wars did cease from the same hour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mighty bolts from it were hurled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would soon have laid waste the world;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So for world’s preservation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At once they stopped desolation.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All wars by them ar now despised,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Unfit for nations civilized;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peaceful glories they do sing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And are not slaves to warlike king.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bellamy describes a poor rose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where in cold swamp it feebly grows;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Transplanted to the heat and light,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bush blossoms are a charming sight.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="raise-high-the-banner" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Raise High the Banner</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>July 1st, 1891.</p>
					<p>The school children were trained by <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Messrs.</abbr> McDiarmid and Underwood, the former being Principal of the Public School.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Raise high up the banner</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er both school-house and manor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For this glorious standard</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Doth lead on in the vanguard.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Teach our children to honor</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This grand old famous banner;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Triumphant in many a field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our freedom it doth ever shield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Children sang in happy manner</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At the raising of the banner;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They followed leader all so good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they were led by Underwood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And our brave youths will man her,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This pure, unspotted banner;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the Maple Leaf entwines</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with Union Jack combines.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-pleasing-illusion" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Pleasing Illusion</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I saw a pleasing sight this spring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Seem’d like a hundred ducks on wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fluttering o’er the crystal water,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I felt like rippling o’er with laughter.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the truth it did awaken,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In silver ducks I was mistaken;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was the sunbeam’s merry dancing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That on the water I saw glancing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Rejoicing that from bonds of ice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were free these pearls of price;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though banks were bound with fringe of snow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which gave more lustre to the glow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So ’tis no wonder that we sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the glories of the spring;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each day fresh beauties will be seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When fields are cover’d o’er with green.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Adieu to Winter brings no grief,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For we do long for bud and leaf;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which are brought out by sunny showers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And covers landscape with the flowers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The sun is glorious orb of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Refulgent is each sparkling ray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The moon she is the Queen of Night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enthroned among the stars so bright.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="a-ghost-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">A Ghost Story</h2>
			<p>
				<span>There was a bonnie Scottish lass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She had two lovers green as grass;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This fair maiden’s name was Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she was playful as a fairy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Lovers haunted her night and day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She could not make thera stay away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Two then sought favor in her eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But both alike she did despise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She promised each one to reward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If ho would go to the church yard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which was close by, the first dark night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that the other he would fright.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No other road it could be found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Mary’s, save by burial ground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knew that each was coward loon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When nights were dark without a moon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When each for to secure his bride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He in the grave yard then did hide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each thinking ’twas a glorious lark</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To frighten other in the dark.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But both wore cowards⁠—far from brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each trembled alongside of grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Expecting to see ghost arise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Strange sights they float before their eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Both had around them sheets so white</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each wished the other for to fright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While rival on the road did pass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They both quick rose, but sad, alas.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each saw a ghost; the one did faint,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The other’s horror who can paint;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He there severelyy bruised his bones,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Madly rushing o’er grave stones.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he did get a fearful fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Jumping o’er the churchyard wall;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They both fell sick and lost their pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And neither went to claim his bride.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When they arose from their sick bed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They heard the news that Mary wed</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A brave and handsome farmer’s son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who never from a ghost had run.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="sir-walter-scott" epub:type="division">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Sir Walter Scott</h2>
			<p>After long and mature reflection, I have no hesitation in saying that I think Sir Walter Scott is entitled to the second place in British Literature, immediately next to Shakespeare. After poring over the ballads and tales of James Mogg, which from their nature resemble Scott’s, I made the mistake of attributing this couplet by Scott to James Hogg:</p>
			<section id="macgregors-gathering" epub:type="z3998:poem">
				<h3 epub:type="title">MacGregor’s Gathering</h3>
				<p>
					<span>While there’s leaves on the forest or foam on the river,</span>
					<br/>
					<span>MacGregor despite them, shall flourish forever.</span>
				</p>
			</section>
		</article>
		<article id="big-stag" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Big Stag</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Each Highland forester doth brag</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he hath seen a mighty stag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But sportsmen they do think it strange,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He never comes within their range.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the keeper, Donald McKay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Says he saw it just the other day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though gents can’t it, dihcover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It is there the same, whatever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The last I saw of wondrous stag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was grazing near yon crag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In company with hia dear doe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They seemed to love each other so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And playful sporting on the lawn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Long side of them their bonnie fawn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I loved to see the creatures play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From them I scarce could turn away.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My heart grew tender, I did lag</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So long I could not shoot the stag,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And forest still he yet adorns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With magnificent head of horns.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But I do fear some fatal day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That some pot-hunter will him slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who would be heedless of the woe</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sorrows of the fawn and doe.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="eagle-and-stag" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Eagle and Stag</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In lonely distant Highland glen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Far away from abode of men,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A herd of deer they quietly graze,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No foe appears where e’er they gaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But there was one with flashing eyes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was glaring on them from the skies,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dooming the one whose antlered horns,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The monarch of the glen adorns.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The king of birds while high in air,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolves that he will boldly dare</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To attack this fine, noble beast.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from its heart’s blood have a feast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He circles downwards in his flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Floats calm, takes aim, then with his might,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Like bullet strikes the mighty deer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose frame doth tremble all with fear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He doth not fear without a cause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For eagle’s buried deep his claws</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the neck of this noble buck,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with sharp beak its blood doth suck.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For fierce bird with powerful swing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lashes the deer with each big wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with strong eflibrts too it trys</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to pick out Voth of its eyes.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now the deer doth know its foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with its antlers strikes it blow;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes it sprawl among the heather,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And doth ruffle up each feather.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But bird quick takes aerial flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And descends with power and might</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Further back on the deer’s haunches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Out of reach of antler branches.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But deer it was both wise and bold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He down the hill with eagle rolled;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bird he closer to it clung,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from deer’s side the blood it wrung.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The stag, though suffering cruel harm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet not o’erwhelm’d with alarm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He threw himself heels over head,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until at last the eagle fled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And high again in air he flew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Once more the contest to renew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But deer made his escape full good</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the shade of a neighboring wood.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And bird descending for its prey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Finds it hath swiftly fled away;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eagle then like a hungry sinner</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Had to seek elsewhere for its dinner.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now it homeward takes its flight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its golden plumes in a sad plight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To a high rock where its throbbing breast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May there find rest in its own nest.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And soon around the antler’d deer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The does do crowd his heart to cheer,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rejoicing he was so brave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As to drive off the winged knave.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fairy-tale-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fairy Tale</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Among the hills lives John McCrae,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An honest man so all do say;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>John and his wife live together</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Mong the hills and blooming heather.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>On their small faim they do keep</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A cow and a few goats and sheep;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They own a little Highland horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which ploughs and draws the peats from moss.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For they never saw a coal fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peats give heat all they require;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peat fire makes best Highland whisky,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which doth make a man so frisky.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>John is a crofter in Skye,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May better days on him draw nigh;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet John he did not inherit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Any discontented spirit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But happy with his humble lot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His little croft and poor turf cot;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He always to the Lord gives praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though but a poor crop he doth raise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He never travelled far abroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And worships still his father’s God;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From modern thoughts he is quite free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And newspapers doth seldom see.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He believes the tales his Granny told</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him long since in days of old,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his wife, kind-hearted Mary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Believes in both witch and fairy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She sweeps her hearth so clean each night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For fairies in bright fire delight;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they love to see all things neat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those pretty little creatures sweet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So to the cot of John McCrae</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They every night do wend their way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to view the peat fire burn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to help his wife to churn.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Neighbors great jealousy display,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They can’t make butter like McCrae,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the fairies have the power</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of making all the milk turn sour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One moonlight night old John McCrae,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He in the glen saw fairies play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The prettiest sight he ever seen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While they did dance upon the green.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And John doth solemn pass his word</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were as small as humming bird;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he these charmers did behold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They were clad in green and gold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The most charming one upon the green,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was just crowned the fairy queen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She told John she loved his wife</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because her home it knew no strife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But she asked John for a reward,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She said Mary’s bannocks were too hard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that the fairies loved to eat</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Little nibs of softer meat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So fully John he told Mary</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the strange request of fairy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So now each day she doth bake</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A little tiny griddle cake,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In morning fairies they have flown,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the little cake too is gone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But wicked people full of vice</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Say that the cake is eat by mice.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But this John’s heart it snd doth grieve</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That people should themselves deceive;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It hath been so since Adam’s fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some believe much, some not at all.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So now farewell to John McCrae,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>May we meet him some other day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to our heart it is relief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find a man with old belief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some folks to beauty they are blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So full of selfishness the mind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And others happy to catch gleam</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the green field or hill or stream.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="address-to-the-scottish-clans-at-woodstock" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Address to the Scottish Clans at Woodstock</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">June 19th, 1890.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Scotia’s Sons! We love to meet thee,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with hearty feelings greet thee;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You have come in a right good flock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To this progressive town, Woodstock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Scottish clans, noble order,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here they meet from o’er the border;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From greatest of Republics, south,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That vast land of wondrous growth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We will not call them foreign nation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they are our own blood relation,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this gathering all so grand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is welcomed by Clan Sutherland.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The Highland men of Illinois,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tn our old age increased our joys,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Making us an honorary member,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Their kindness we will e’er remember.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And may you often meet together,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From land of whin and broom and heather;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wallace, and Bruce, and Burns, and Scott,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are names should never be forgot.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Zorra’s fame is heard afar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victorious in each tug of war;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All loved the little boys and girls</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In Highland dress and waving curls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And you have chose Canadian</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the chief of your Royal Clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And you will find that Sutherland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is one who ably will command.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-35" id="noteref-35" epub:type="noteref">35</a></span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-on-colonel-wonham" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines on Colonel Wonham</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Formerly of Ingersoll. He spent the last years of his life in Winnipeg. These lines were published at the time of the Fenian Raid:</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>When Wonham got orders</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To march to the borders,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His boys they were ready,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And fell in quite steady.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They first march’d to Woodstock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To prepare for war’s shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon camped at Windsor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Facing American shore.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="murder-of-a-young-englishman" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Murder of a Young Englishman</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>By one of his own countrymen, a few miles east of Woodstock, February, 1890.</p>
					<p>Death of Benwell and execution of Birchall.<a href="endnotes.xhtml#note-36" id="noteref-36" epub:type="noteref">36</a> <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Perry was Sheriff at that time; now <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Brady holds this position, and a son of the late sheriff is Deputy.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Now a sad tale we hiive to tell:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A few miles east, in Blenheim swamp,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So cruel slain was young Benwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whose body lay ’mong snow and damp.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He was a well-bred English youth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hoping to own Canadian farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But his countryman devoid of truth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He did plot his deadly harm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sad fate, the world did appal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he by bullet thus should die;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fired by protended friend, Birchall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who swung for it on gallows high.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fair-day-at-embro" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Fair Day at Embro</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On the Middle Branch of the Thames.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Of Scottish names a great array</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We meet at Erabro on Fair Day;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>McDonald, McKenzie and McKay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Murray, Ross and Sutherland,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Munroes round you stand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Your lassies worthy of our song,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And youth are famed for muscle strong</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they can pull both hard and long;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their fame is heard afar.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Victorious in each tug of war.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But these battles bring no sorrow</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the hardy youth of Zorra,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And no tears to eyes of Flora;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They are not deadly tugs of war,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they leave no wounds nor scar.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="decoration-day" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Decoration Day</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">The following lines were delivered by me at ihe first Decoration of Graves in Ingersoll. I took part in a ceremony of the same kind in Woodstock in 1890, and such was the superabundance of flowers there that I reserved a boquet for the grave of young McKenzie, who fell nobly fighting for his country at the Battle of Ridgeway. The County of Oxford has erected a fine monument, with a substantial iron railing around the hero’s grave, on the banks of the Thames.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>This is the opening dedication</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of annual day of decoration,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus each year will brothers meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To shed the bloom and perfume sweet;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they will have a noble aim</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In meeting on the banks of Thame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In the States they decorate grave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of each departed soldier brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here in Ontario West</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We decorate where brothers rest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though some are unknown to fame</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They peaceful rest on banks of Thame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more their grave is place of gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But scene of fragrance and bloom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No more the tomb is dismal cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For flowers each year will o’er it wave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In sweet remembrance each name</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will live beside the silver Thame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Flowers here will shed their rich perfume</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus dispel the dismal gloom;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Departed’s memory we cherish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And their names shall never perish,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While doth flow the pleasant stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er pebbly bed, the crystal Thame.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="strange-water-wheels-at-beachville" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Strange Water Wheels at Beachville</h2>
				<div epub:type="bridgehead">
					<p>Invented by John Cross, a laborer, while working there.</p>
					<p>It is the cause of a good deal of curiosity on the part of travellers passing along, and observing wheels revolving in the river, evidently driving some machinery which they cannot discover conveniently, as they are driving pumps low down in the quarry beds. Good building stone as well as stone for the perpetual kilns are obtained convenient to two lines of railway depots and sidings.</p>
				</div>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Here in the river you descry</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wheels revolve to keep quarries dry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Elsewhere such pumps are drove by steam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But here by current of the stream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Easy it the water carries,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And leaves dry the beds of quarries;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Continuous at perpetual kiln,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You withdraw lime and with stone fill.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fight-in-a-cave" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fight in a Cave</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is a tale of a hunter brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He sought for refuge in a cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To escape a furious storm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he built fire to keep him warm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Dry leaves and twigs made fire and smoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which wild beasts’ fury did provoke;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By its growl he knew ’twas bear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But bruin’s fury he would dare.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For he determined not to run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he gave it a shot from gun,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But this the bear it did enrage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved in war for to engage.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For it came shambling along,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To have revenge for suflering wrong;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunter with the butt of rifle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Struck and stunned him a trifle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once more he aimed, it glanced on rock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was left with broken stock;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now the bear it doth hunter seize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And gives him many a hug and squeeze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The struggle is so close for life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The hunter cannot use his knife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the nimble hunter bold</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Soon made the bear relax his hold.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>By a sudden spring bear he rolls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his nose in burning coals;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His nostrils full of fire and smoke,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Poor Brvin it doth almost choke.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The hunter now doth use his knife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Stabs bear in heart and ends the strife;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So hunter he did victory win,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spoils of battle in grand skin.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-present-time" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Present Time</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">1890.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>This is no age for mystery,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But full of eventful history;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Not a time for stupid dreaming,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the lightning it is gleaming.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A brighter light doth now surpass,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And throws in shade once favored gas;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Now it is not an idle dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Predicting greater power than steam.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But perhaps it is not wise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For us to philosophise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we might get in water deep,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or find a hill for us too steep.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Some think it is almost a crime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To write a simple kind of rhyme</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That every one can understand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They love a style is lofty, grand.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which no one can comprehend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without beginning or an end,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And if it only is obscure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To them it is a proof full sure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The authors have a mighty mind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to philosophy inclined;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They adore the metaphysical,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And humble thoughts do them appal.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But though our style it may seem rude,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We love for to be understood;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though we have no skill nor art,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We hope to reach some honest heart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Our old style walk will soon he gone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In place of wood wo will have stone;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And water works from lofty tower</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Blessings on the town will shower.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-rescue" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The Rescue</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In a deep cleft among the hills</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There flows one of those mountain rills;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In fine weather a scene of charms,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in a storm ’tis all alarms.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And woe befalls those seek to trudge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And strive to cross its rustic bridge;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The roadway it becomes deep rut,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spot is named the babies’ cut.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Minister’s only child had died,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the poor father mourned and sighed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found no rest when child was buried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grave robbers then mourners worried.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>About the middle of first night</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The preacher woke in a great fright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there raged a furious storm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he thought he saw the form</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Of his sweet child alive in grave.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Shall he the rain aod lightning brave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or humble submit and kiss the rod,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Obedient to the will of God?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Shall he who others tries to fill</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With resignation to God’s will,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forget the precepts he has taught,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at once set them all at naught?</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he rushed to burial ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And to his wonder there he found</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men with a light who quick as dart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Did throw a bundle in their cart.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then at a furious race they drove,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But clergyman impelled by love</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For his dear child, did quickly follow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’ertook them in the hollow,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Where lightning flashed and thunder roared,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the stream with fury poured;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Here the preacher shouted wild,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Give me back my darling child.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The horse affrighted plunged in river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the men were lost forever;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The minister he heard the crash</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As ’gainst the broken bridge they dash.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But though a great storm did prevail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet he heard a sad human wail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sound coming from the bridge’s rack,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He climbed o’er timber and found sack.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then his heart got reconciled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sack proved to hold his darling child;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The parents’ joy who can tell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To find their child alive and well.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Child had been buried in a swoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Next danger was that it might drown;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Providence on parents smiled,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they were blessed with their child.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lady-ann" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lady Ann</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A Highland clan were in despair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because their chief he had no heir,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And even the women of the clan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enchantments tried ’gainst Lady Ann.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They consulted prophets and seers,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they at last did quell their fears;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If the clan would pilgrimage pay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To Saint Botham’s Shrine on Christmas Day.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If they but visited this shrine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then would a miracle divine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Make Chief and Lady happy pair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they would be bless’d with an heir.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The day arriv’d, it chill’d their blood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For river was a mighty flood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And through the storm they must trudge,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then cross o’er a dangerous bridge.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Though great dimage the flood had made,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They reached the shrine, devotions paid;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And homeward now they wend their way</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To cross again the flooded Spey.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bridge was built of rough long plank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which halfway reached from bank to bank;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But while crossing this flooded stream</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Lady Ann gave a sudden scream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Carlock push’d her in the river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she was borne away forever;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So at least old ruffian thought,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though wicked schemes oft come to naught.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Superstitious was old Carlock;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He believed in witch and warlock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that oft times departed spirit</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Would its home again inherit.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One night he sees a horrid sight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was Lady Ann dress’d in white;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To ruffian a deadly shock,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He flung himself from castle rock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The chief at first o’ercome with fear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then to his heart press’d Lady dear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Whom he had nivnn up for lost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thought at first she was a ghost.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But the kind miller of Clack Clam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the great flood had lost his dam;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Himself, and son, and wife and daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All were working near the water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Quite suddenly the miller’s son</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Ran to the house to get his gun;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He saw what he methought was swan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which prov’d to be the Lady Ann.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>At first they thought that she was dead,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And carried her to a warm bed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There full soon she did recover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And was happier than ever.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>After her floating on the waters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She gave birth to sons and daughters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And ne’er had cause for to repine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her pilgrimage into the shrine.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="tom-norton" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Tom Norton</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Tale of Shipwreck</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>That staunch good ship, <i epub:type="se:name.vessel.ship">The Albatross</i>,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Dismantled in a storm did toss,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For the wind it blew terrific,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the Southern Pacific.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The ship went down and of the crew</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those that were saved of them were few;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In various ways they strove to float</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On chicken coop and spar and boat.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Tom Norton, the second mate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Met with a romantic fate;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Most of his poor comrades sank,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But safe he floated on his plank.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Although he was in a sad plight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tossed about by day and night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he had little food or drink.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet brave Tom’s courage did not sink.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The seventh day with joy he sees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An island cover’d with palm trees,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as the sea was now quite calm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He floated slow to isle of palm.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Here nature pleasantly doth smile</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On this dear little lonely isle;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The natives soon do him espy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And cast on him a longing eye.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They thought his flesh they would like raw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The first white man they ever saw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His skin to them seem’d sweet and clean,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they found he was far too lean.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So after talking o’er the matter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They resolved to make him fatter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they put him in a bamboo cage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the king’s daughter did engage</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The beautiful and youthful Wambo</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To feed captive in the cage of bamboo;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She fed her captive all so well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That soon in love with him she fell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For each day he seem’d to sweeten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Too good by far for to be eaten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So she resolved him to save,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her father’s wrath to brave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>King Bomba wished to make great feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And slaughter poor Tom like a beast;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to the nation King did boast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tom would make a glorious roast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But those who wished for slices raw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would get a chance to crunch their jaw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On some pieces of long Tom pork</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They could set their teeth to work.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Poor Tom they all resolved to slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To grace the feast on King’s birthday;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the daughter of King Bomba</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Resolved they should not use Tom so.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So she selected one dark night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And her footsteps were so light;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She knew the guards she could slip by</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Before they her could e’er espy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She full determined him to save</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By hiding him in a small cave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she discovered o’er the lake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Well hid among the rocks and brake.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Her steps so light she did not rouse the</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Sleeping guards, they were so drowsy;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She whispered in the ear of Tom</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That she would find him better home.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She knew the cannibals would rage,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they would find an empty cage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But innocence she could slam so,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would not suspect Miss Wambo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The waters of this lake doth lave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mouth of this hidden cave;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In her canoe Bomba’s daughter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quickly rowed him o’er the water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This little cave doth bushes screen,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Save her none else had ever seen</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This cosy, safe and snug retreat,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where her dear lover she could meet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For she so dearly loved poor Tom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was so far away from home;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To him a helping hand she’d lend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And she would be his warmest friend.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She promised Tom to bring him roots,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And coconuts and banyan fruits;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She was so skilful with the oar,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each night she would replace the store.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But a great tumult did arise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When savages lost their fat prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For King’s birthday it now was near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And Tom’s flesh they prized so dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They searched for him both day and night,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And it was a romantic sight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see these naked barbarous men</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Search each hill and nook and glen.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In dark nights with burning flambeau</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They search’d, led on by King Bomba;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Tom his trials he stood so brave,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He felt secure in hidden cave.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But each night he longed for Wambo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She brought him turtle and clam so</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Large and fat and delicious,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he fend they were nutritious.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He told his love that story good,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of little Red Riding Hood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And how the wolf poor child deceives,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This cruel tale her sadly grieves.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>First time she ever heard a story,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It added greatly to Tom’s glory;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wolf so treacherous she did hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And pitied poor Riding Hood’s fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This sad tale so cruel, gory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It saved Tom’s life this little story;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Tom would been found soon or late,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And would have met a horrid fate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she to cave did father bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So Tom could tell tale to the King;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The King and daughter both they cried,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Because little Riding Hood died.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bomba gave to Tom his daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon other tales he taught her;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wonder they oft times would fill her;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Jack in Bean Stalk” and “Giant Killer.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The first so quickly he could walk</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the top of a tall bean stalk;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It was high as lofty steeple,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There Jack looked down upon the people.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And more wondrous tale of giant,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the world so long defiant;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carrying off oxen on his back,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till he was slain by little Jack.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when e’er she was full of gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He told her tale of “Hop, O’ My Thumb”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Natives wou’d come from far and near,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These wondrous stories for to hear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They brought him coconuts so free,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the bread from the fruit tree;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On fat turtles he could feast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When he told of “Beauty and the Beast.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And Tom thought that it was no crime</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To change tales of prose into rhyme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As we do here in hopes that tingle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To the ear will be sweet jingle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But at last they all refused to</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listen to anything but “Crusoe,”</span>
				<br/>
				<span>How weary time he did beguile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Living so long on lonely isle.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>After all with greatest pride, they</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Heard about his black man Friday,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until they got stories off by heart,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then with their goods they would not part.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For they were teaching one another.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The King to stop all this bother;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gave son-in-law a copyright,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He only should the folks delight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But fortune now on Tom doth smile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>An English ship anchored on isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For they required interpreter</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To bring to them supply of water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Water on ship was old and stale,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>There was a stench from water pail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Tom he quickly did procure</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Water from the spring so pure.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The captain tried Tom to beguile,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And take him off from savage isle,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Tom eujoyed this kind of life,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And loved his children and his wife.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From ship Tom got h book of stories,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And in “Arabian Nights” soon glories.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then each savage he delights,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Listening to tales about those Nights.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Tom’s influence no more it fails,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He reads to them those charming tales;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While with awe on him they look,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he reads stories from the book.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bomba Tomba, his eldest son,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He fame and fortune will soon won,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he can tell them many a whopper</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of “Cinderella and Glass Slipper.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he is learning now to read,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So natives generous will him feed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thus he will retain their hearts,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When his father this life departs.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This tale a proof it doth afford</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That pen is mightier than the sword;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In warriors no more they glory,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But in the man who tells the story.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more they now each other drub,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Flourishing the warlike club;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Spears no more are used for stabbing,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor their javelins for jabbing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Except when they do wish to feast</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the Hesh of some fat beast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They reserve their bows and arrows,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To shoot the pigeons and sparrows.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>All warlike arts they have forsook,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And reverence the man with book;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Peaceful arts they all now prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For Christian truths hath made them wise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For Tom impressed them with Christ’s love,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they all hope for Heaven above;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bomba Tomba is now crowned King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of him will future poets sing.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="fox-hunt-yarn" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Fox Hunt Yarn</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This my adventure is no hoax;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I mounted horse to hunt a fox,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The cunning beast got into cover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hunting him we rode all over.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But my fine horse he stumbling fell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Down to the bottom of the well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus the noble beast was slain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My comrades scattered o’er the plain,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Knew not that in the depths profound</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was in deep hole underground;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While o’er broad fields they proudly course,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I was laying on my dead horse.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And from thence did often yell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But no one came near to that well;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The carcass soon it did ferment,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from it there went a strong scent,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Which attracted flock of buzzards,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And down they came to fill their gizzards;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around four of them I did cling,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And made them fly aloft on wing.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they flew higher than I wanted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though T was still quite undaunted;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I first let one buzzard slip,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then another on downward trip,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Till I arrived all safe and sound,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Without a scratch on solid ground,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But now no man can ever coax</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Me to go hunting of a fox.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-king-and-peasant" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">The King and Peasant</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A pleasant tale we now will sing</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of an old peasant and the King;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The kind Italian King, Humbert,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the gun is a great expert.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Peasant with wonder saw the King</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bring down the partridges on wing;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peasant he doth sportsman praise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each shot it filled him with amaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The King he dearly loves to shoot</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In plain garb without his suite;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He casts aside his Kingly fetters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All his escort are two setters.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To farmer he doth chat pleasant</span>
				<br/>
				<span>About the partridge and the pheasant;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He tells the King his chicken flocks</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Are oft invaded by the fox.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And proposal he advances</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to give the King two francs,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he the enemy will slay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He cheerfully the sum will pay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he must come at early morn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For then the fowls from coop are torn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The King he came and shot reynard,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And peasant then gave him reward.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And he gave the King his breakfast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His majesty enjoyed repast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And kindly chatted to the dame,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forgetting all his rank and fame.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Next day a carriage drove to door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gilt it was all covered o’er;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And liveried servant brought present,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Both for the wife and the peasant.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And now their thoughts do fondly cling</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around their kind-hearted King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who won their hearts while in disguise:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The fox he slew they greatly prize.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No more lost fowl they do bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But glory in the fox fine tail;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They love to view him in glass case,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So they may cunning features trace.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It to them doth pleasure bring,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As it reminds them of their King,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who did one morn at break of day.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enemy of their chickens slay.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="spanish-donkey" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Spanish Donkey</h2>
			<p>
				<span>In Spain full oft the little donkey</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is misehievous as a monkey,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Spanish peasant owned a prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A donkey was both strong and wise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Peasant drove him each day to town,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And sold his milk both up and down;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And where his customers did dwell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The peasant he did ring door bell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But he was struck down by fever,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he was a strong believer</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That the donkey milk could sell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And at each house would pull the bell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It really did turn out that way,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>House without bell for them he’d bray;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And allowed the Spanishers</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To unload his panniers.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When the town’s Mayor did hear the news,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said no one must beast abuse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And each measure out milk honest,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And truly they all acted just.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So thus the donkey milk did sell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Until the peasant he got well,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And we are happy for to say,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each for his milk did honest pay.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="child-and-horse" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Child and Horse</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A mother driving out with child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When the storm it blew so wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So keen the cold the mother felt,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She went to house to get a quilt.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And her little girl she snug lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the bottom of the buggy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But as the horse it was not tied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At a dog it got terrified.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And off it ran with the dear child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Leaving mother in anguish wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She tried to follow up the horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But soon she got on the wrong course.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>She searched all day, but found no trace,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till faint and weary with her pace;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And as the day draws to a close,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She fears her child it will be froze,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>If she is not dashed to pieces</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By the runaway, so vicious:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A horrid night the mother spent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And many a prayer to Heaven sent,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>That the Lord would save her dear child</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From her numerous dangers wild;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It plainly shows the Lord did hear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And spared the life of infant dear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For it so happened that next day</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Some boys who in the woods did play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In place well sheltered by the trees</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where but slightly it did freeze,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These youths there found the buggy,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And horse it there beside it lay</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With the child beside its breast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seemed as if it child caressed.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So lovingly within its arm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if protecting it from harm.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The mother came and thanked the Lord</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That her lost child was now restored.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And even the runaway horse,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From his race was none the worse;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The beast the family highly prize</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For its care of child so wise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It seem’d as if little deary,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of the buggy had grown weary;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when the horse lay down to rest</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She went and lay upon its breast.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While mother she was in alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her child was sleeping snug and warm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The lesson we must learn from thence,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Is for to trust in Providence.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="mule-and-bear-fight" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Mule and Bear Fight</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We have a favorite old mule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A big load he can easy pull;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He is a quiet and gentle beast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No trouble with him in the least.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Once we left him in the wood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he got into surly mood,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For a big bear did round him fool</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till kicked by hind feet of our mule.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One caulk it struck in its neck</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Enough the joint of it to break;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bear was quite stunned with the blow,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon lay helpless in the snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I unhitched mule from the sleigh.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So as to give the beast fair play;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I knew the bear would soon come round,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And that our mule would stand his ground.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bear now raised upon his haunches,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mule a blow at him he launches;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With both hind feet to lay him low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But the bear he dodged the blow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bear then threw his arms round mule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he strove him down to pull,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But all in vain, the bear with feet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He could not with the mule compete.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For he gave bear no time to pause,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But with his hoofs he broke his jaws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the great bear he soon laid low,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His blood all scatter’d o’er the snow.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I truly think the mule takes pride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each winter o’er the large bear’s hide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He looks at it often in the sleigh,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then merry he doth trot away.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="bear-and-buzzsaw" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Bear and Buzzsaw</h2>
				<p epub:type="subtitle">A Saw Mill Yarn</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>
				<span>I owned sawmill in Michigan,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which by water power ran;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Buzzsaw possessed mighty power,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thousands of feet it cut each hour.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mills could compete with it were few,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It cut plank that were four feet through;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Most of the mills were drove by steam,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But mine was drove by a big stream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One morning when I started mill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With wonder soon my mind doth fill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I was there then all alone,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fear I was forced to groan,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When I saw big bear touch its paw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Against the swift running buzzsaw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Its foot in moment it did tear,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And this it did enrage the bear.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The bear was now roused to fury,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It would be both judge and jury;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rushing on it with open jaws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And for to crush it with its paws.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Most wondrous sight I ever saw,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It cut through centre of its jaw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Saw’s speed for moment did not fail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cutting through its back bone and tail.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In two the bear it did divide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>One half did lay upon each side;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Carcass we froze and fresh bear steak</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We enjoyed many a week.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>We sewed together the bear’s hide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the saw did skin divide;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In winter warmly now I ride,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Neath bear skin famous far and wide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Mill cogs and shafts they ran with ease</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When lubricated with bear’s grease;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I never shall forget strange freak,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Brought nie bear’s skin and grease and steak.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="wooden-leg" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Wooden Leg</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Misfortune sometimes is a prize,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And is a blessing in disguise;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A man with a stout wooden leg,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through town and country he can beg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the people in the city,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On poor man they do take pity;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He points them to his timber leg</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And tells them of his poor wife, Meg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And if a dog tries him to bite,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his stiff leg he doth him smite,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or sometimes he will let him dig</span>
				<br/>
				<span>His teeth into the wooden leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Then never more will dog delight</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This poor cripple man for to bite;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rheumatic pains they never twig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Nor corns annoy foot of leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So cripple if he’s man of sense,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Finds for ills some recompense;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And though he cannot dance a jig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He merry moves on wooden leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And when he only has one foot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He needs to brush only one boot;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through world he does jolly peg,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So cheerful with his wooden leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In mud or water he can stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With his foot on the firm dry land,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For wet he doth not care a fig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It never hurts his wooden leg.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>No aches he has but on the toes</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of one foot, and but one gets froze;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He has many a jolly rig,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And oft enjoys his wooden leg.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="alligator-rider" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Alligator Rider</h2>
			<p>
				<span>I was born in State of Florida,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the banks of a mighty river,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where each big alligator’s jaw</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes the northern folks to shiver.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>I truly was possessed with vim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And some droll antics I would play,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>While in the river I did swim,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And rode alligators in the bay.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>It oft times amused spectators</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who came down south to gain their health,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see me ride those alligators;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>My sports to hotel brought great wealth.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>In hotel were many waiters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To tend the guests, enjoyed my rides;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They loved to see the alligators</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When with my spurs I pierced their hides.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My bridle great did them surprise,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I put no bit into their mouth,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But put my fingers in their eyes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thus amused the folks down south.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>’Tis strange I still am a survivor,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Living ’mong earth’s sons and daughters,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For I was a wondrous diver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And could boldly swim the waters.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Swifter far than any skaters</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Do o’er north frozen waters glide,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I could stride my alligators,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And o’er the waters proudly ride.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="young-swell-and-tramp" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Young Swell and Tramp</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One day a youth full of conceit,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With witty tramp he chanced to meet,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As he was taking walk abroad</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So leisurely along the road.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The tramp well knew the stylish gent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wouid have hard work to raise a cent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But a sad tale the tramp did tell</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of sorrows that had him befell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While on the road he thus did stand</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And humbly held his hat in hand;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Great eloquence he did employ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He said he was poor orphan boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From labor he would never shirk,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But would be happy to get work,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For his family the bread winner,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But none of them had their dinner.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And some whole days would go past</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wherein they never broke their fast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So pray now give me some relief</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And help for to assuage my grief.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said swell, “I never take a load</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of money with me when abroad,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to dispense to tramps on street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When I by chance with them do meet.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>This speech for moment did not damp</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The ardor of the witty tramp;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said he, “Give me your card to call,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And visit your manorial hall.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lightning-rod-agent" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Lightning Rod Agent</h2>
			<p>
				<span>An agent with both smiles and nods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asked Jones to buy his lightning rods;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Jones, “You have made a blunder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fear not lightning but the thunder.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“Others you may go a frightening,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I tremble not at the lightning;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Those that are scared at them, I wonder,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But I own I dread the thunder.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>“I know,” said agent, “It is true,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Thunder’s most dangerous of the two”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Jones, “Set me up thunder rods,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And from my mind it will take loads.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said agent, “Lightning easy glides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er these brass tips it smoothly slides,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when the thunder loudly rolls,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>These nickel tips it soon controls.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But Jones, you are a man of sense,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You see thunder rods are more expense”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Said Jones, “I care not for the cost,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Safety is what I prize the most.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said agent, “Biggest bolt of thunder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will be harmless as coal cinder;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>You then can smile while each explodes,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When we get up your thunder rods.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="conquered-by-a-child" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Conquered by a Child</h2>
			<p>
				<span>A gent and lady take a trip</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Along Pacific coast in ship,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And with them is little daughter,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For she doth enjoy the water.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The little maiden is adored</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By all the sailors are aboard;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wheelsman often child did coax</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To go up with him to his box.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she is a great favorite too</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Among the whole of the deck crew;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On lower deck was strange cargo,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Three men chained on way to Fargo.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They are ruffians desperate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And law and order both they hate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But conquered by this little child,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who talked to them and on them smiled.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These men, though they were bound in chains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They soon forgot their rage and pains,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And felt she was an angel, sent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to request them to repent.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Sheriff with pistols in his hand,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er those men lie held command;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But vessel struck ’gainst sunken rock</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And child went o’erboard with the shock.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Bill Jones, though chained hand and foot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cried, “Sheriff please now do not shoot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And little darling I will save</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From sinking in a watery grave.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His hands and feet they both were tied,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Yet danger all he bold defied;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It seems the Lord doth efforts bless,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With teeth he seized the child by dress,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And held her head above the wave</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Till rescue comes them both to save;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>All on board were glad to see</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sheriff set brave Bill Jones free.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="joined-his-church" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Joined His Church</h2>
			<p>
				<span>They tell us, May, that love is blind,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But dear, there’s something on my mind;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And since we now are engaged,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I hope you will not be enraged.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Can you, dear May, now bear the news</span>
				<br/>
				<span>From the poor husband vou would choose;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I fear to tell you, but I must,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That I am a somnambulist.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said she, “Dear Dick, I will not lurch,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But stick to you if that’s your church;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though I own, as a tender maid</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of your belief I was afraid.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But now the name I do not heed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And will adopt it as my creed;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though, alas, she soon is weeping</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To see her husband walking sleeping.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="soldier-and-gander" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Soldier and Gander</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When Sherman marched through Georgia,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Hanger in soldiers oft did knaw;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A soldier longing for to dine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He soon procured a hook and line,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And put on hook a tempting bait.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And old wife stood beside her gate,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And round her a flock of geese;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soldier he resolved to fleece</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The old Irtdy of her gander,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And make it from flock to wander;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Quick as the soldier threw the bait</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gander then it left each mate.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And it then seem’d to the beholder</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As if the gander chased the soldier;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old lady told soldier not to run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For gander only was in fun,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And she would pledge to him her word,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The gander was kind-hearted bird;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She never knew him yet to fight,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For in good deeds he took delight.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The soldier cried, “I will not stay,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But from fierce fowl will run away”;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Old woman she could not divine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Gander was pulled by hook and line.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>When soldier got across the hill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He took the hook from out its bill,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Twisted its neck, and goose did roast,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Oft of that meal he yet doth boast.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="indian-wars" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Indian Wars</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We started to march o’er the plain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And looked for shelter long in vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>At last a scout brought in the news,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He found a house to rendezvous.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A large block house in the valley</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where the company could rally;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And soon they start a cheerful fire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With all the comfort they desire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But when the wind went howling by,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It bore along an infant’s cry;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Men rushed out on the prairie</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to find the little fairy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>They found child in arms of mother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And met its father and its brother,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a young sister who was quite small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With kitten wrapped up in a shawl.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>These folks were drawn by an ox team,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And of such storm they did not dream;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>O’er wagon canvas erection,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It gave them but slight protection.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But though this family was in gloom,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The soldiers gave them warm room,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where they slept till dawn of day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then emigrants went on their way.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon a soldier gave alarm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which to us seem’d to bring us harm;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He thought, or was it but a dream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That he heard the baby scream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Horror on all it did hefal,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When soldier said ’twas wrapped in shawl;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>We knew not how it should be fed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And feared that soon it would be dead.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The mess we fixed is historic,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For to feed it milk and paregoric;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Just then we heard Indians yell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And thick ’mong us their arrows fell.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they found they could not trifle</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With us, when each seized his rifle;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But so quick they us surrounded,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Several of our men were wounded.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But soon quiet did reign supreme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Then infant once more was the theme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Though no more the babe doth squall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For arrows have transfixed the shawl,</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Each soldier’s heart was grieved sore,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For blood it trickled to the floor;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So much witl, grief they were smitten,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They opened shawl and found dead kitten.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="love-in-a-snowdrift" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Love in a Snowdrift</h2>
			<p>
				<span>One winter day in snow-bound train,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In drift we stuck in State of Maine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It happened near a village small,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And near the track was public hall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The passengers did all complain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Of these fierce blizzards blow in Maine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With snow plough they had striven all day,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But found they could not make headway.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The weary hours brought grief and pain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To many on that trip in Maine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On me the passengers they call</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To lecture to them in the hall.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>And the next morning I felt vain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When a young man, belonged to Maine,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Warmly thanked me for my lecture,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>“Well pleased with it,” was my conjecture.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He said it gave him chance to gain</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heart of finest girl in Maine;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When to the hall you all resorted,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The sweet girl in car I courted.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>My vanity at first was slain.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But when the young man there in Maine</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Asked me to wed him to his Jane,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I felt the snow drift was a gain.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="blanket-shield" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Blanket Shield</h2>
			<p>
				<span>When blanket round us we do fold,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>It doth keep out the wind and cold;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And when house is near to great fire,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wet blankets save from ruin dire.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>A General in Mexico</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Advanced against Indian foe,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But Indians did hold the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Protected by wet blanket shield.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>While Mexicans by hundreds fall,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Each pierced by an Indian ball;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Wet blanket it must hang quite loose,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or for protection ’tis no use.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Thus Indians rushed o’er the field,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And caused the Mexicans to yield;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The savages they were more wise</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Than Christian foe did them despise.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>As a shield we high must rank it,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So light you cannot outflank it;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The bullets glance off from the blanket,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For its uses we must thank it.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="dime-story" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Dime Story</h2>
			<p>
				<span>We tell a tale, ’tis all in rhyme,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To show how boy earned a dime:</span>
				<br/>
				<span>A parson who his flock did feed,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On written sermons he did read.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>One day at top of pulpit stair</span>
				<br/>
				<span>He was thrown into despair,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For he had forgot his paper,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And his thoughts were but as vapor.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But fortunate his own dear wife,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who often soothed his ills in life.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>She found sermon on the table,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And found a boy who was able</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>To deliver it in good time,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>By promising to give him dime.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The boy to church did quickly run,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he the dime then fairly won.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>So he went back to parsonage</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And demanded then his wage;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The wife she asked the little vermin</span>
				<br/>
				<span>If he had delivered sermon.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Said he, “My contract I did cover,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>I gave it to parson to deliver,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he delivers it with feeling.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the poor folks’ hearts he’s healing.”</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="alligator-and-boy" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Alligator and Boy</h2>
			<p>
				<span>This is a true tale and no yarn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Our boys bathed in Hoxa Tarn;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But for long they had spectator,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Eager, watching alligator.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He wished to make an example</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With fattest boy for a sample,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So that the lads no more would fool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>’Nor play around his favorite pool.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>His fierce assaults the boys did warn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>But they resolved to hold the Tarn,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As they expertly all could swim;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For time, they out-manoeuvred him.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>But they knew sooner or later,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They would be caught by alligator;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So strategy they did employ,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And they rigged up a seeming boy.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He thought, “I here bear sovereign rule,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>No boy shall trespass in my pool;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So now I will enforce my laws,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And crunch him quick between my jaws.”</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He ope’d his mouth, the earth did shake,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Was it thunder bolt or earthquake?</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For there was scattered far and wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Grease and alligator’s hide.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-2" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On Oxford County rosolving to have a Refuge for the honest poor. June, 1891.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Disgrace no more we will bewail,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>That honest poor are sent to jail</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Or allowed to beg from door to door,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>When they are old, sick and footsore;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>They will have retuge on the farm,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where cold and hunger will not harm.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="lines-3" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Lines</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">On <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Dr.</abbr> McKay being appointed whip of the Ontario Legislature.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>McKay he is a clever chap,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Will make good whip for he has snap.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="political" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Political</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Canada was found by Cabot,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And now the Premier is Abbot.</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cheap sugar to all is a boon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Folks love it in their tea and spoon,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Cartwright thinks lie could build state coach,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Laurier could drive without reproach.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="the-flood-on-the-creek" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">The Flood on the Creek</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">April 1891.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Almost broken was the lyre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In the hands of bard McIntyre,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who long had mused beside the stream,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Till rudely wakened from his dream.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>The waters high in each dam pent,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Rushed furious when they found vent;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Through the flood gates opened wide</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Madly raged the foaming tide.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>He heard the waters awful dash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And he heard his warehouse crash,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And saw the waves in wild commotion</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Bearing his stock to the ocean.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Now thanks he gives unto each friend,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Who a helping hand did lend;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With gratitude they did inspire</span>
				<br/>
				<span>The heart-felt thanks of McIntyre.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Old friends and new he’ll gladly meet</span>
				<br/>
				<span>On the west side of Thames street,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Where he has a foundation sure,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And a good stock of furniture.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="big-crops-of-1891" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<h2 epub:type="title">Big Crops of 1891</h2>
			<p>
				<span>Eighteen hundred and ninety-one</span>
				<br/>
				<span>For good crops it leads the van;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>As land had blessed showers of rain,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which brought abundant crops of grain.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>Not scorched with heat, the air was cool,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And the ears were large and full;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Forty bushel to the acre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes flour that delights the baker.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>None ever saw such crops as these,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>So great the yield of oats and peas;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Fifty bushels to the acre</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Makes us grateful to our maker.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="death-of-parnell" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Death of Parnell</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead"><abbr>Oct.</abbr>, 1891.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Ireland’s great champion, Parnell,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>To worldly strife has bade farewell.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
		<article id="short-route-to-the-orient" epub:type="z3998:poem">
			<header>
				<h2 epub:type="title">Short Route to the Orient</h2>
				<p epub:type="bridgehead">Having predicted the building of the Canadian Pacific Railroad, in a poem I published in August, 1858, I felt proud to see the wonderful quick passage of the mails from Japan to Liverpool, via this road.</p>
			</header>
			<p>
				<span>Jules Verne, that brilliant son of France,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Astonished all with wild romance;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Around the world in eighty days,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>This tale it doth no more amaze.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For the Canadian Pacific</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Runs her cars at speed terrific;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Her steamers swiftly plow the seas,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>Which gives to us our cheap, fine teas.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>For she is bound to lead the van</span>
				<br/>
				<span>With her short, quick route to Japan;</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And proudly she may glory vent</span>
				<br/>
				<span>In highway to the Orient.</span>
			</p>
			<p>
				<span>From a small sprout these leaves they grew,</span>
				<br/>
				<span>And bard now bids you kind adieu.</span>
			</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
